kum	 verb-pres 	kum	Intransitive:    (archaic) To die ; Compare 'gum
kum	 verb-past 	kum	Intransitive:    (archaic) To die ; Compare 'gum
kum	 verb-fut 	kum	Intransitive:    (archaic) To die ; Compare 'gum
ker	 verb-pres 	ker	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To erect, to point a finger toward the sky ;  To raise, lift up ;  To raise up (e.g. a finger) ; To arise, get up ;
ker(d)	 verb-past 	ker	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To erect, to point a finger toward the sky ;  To raise, lift up ;  To raise up (e.g. a finger) ; To arise, get up ;
ker	 verb-fut 	ker	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To erect, to point a finger toward the sky ;  To raise, lift up ;  To raise up (e.g. a finger) ; To arise, get up ;
	 verb-pres 	krang	   Compare grang
	 verb-past 	krang	   Compare grang
	 verb-fut 	krang	   Compare grang
klan	 verb-pres 	klan	Transitive:    1. To wreak revenge for. [2. To mend, to patch] ; 1. To avenge, to take revenge. 2. To answer, counter ; (archaic) To answer, counter ;
klan	 verb-past 	klan	Transitive:    1. To wreak revenge for. [2. To mend, to patch] ; 1. To avenge, to take revenge. 2. To answer, counter ; (archaic) To answer, counter ;
klan	 verb-fut 	klan	Transitive:    1. To wreak revenge for. [2. To mend, to patch] ; 1. To avenge, to take revenge. 2. To answer, counter ; (archaic) To answer, counter ;
klas	 verb-pres 	klas	   To be beyond, further than ; 1. To forget. 2. To arrive at the depths, meet the limit. 3. To understand ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD, DS, TC"]}
	 verb-past 	klas	   To be beyond, further than ; 1. To forget. 2. To arrive at the depths, meet the limit. 3. To understand ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD, DS, TC"]}
	 verb-fut 	klas	   To be beyond, further than ; 1. To forget. 2. To arrive at the depths, meet the limit. 3. To understand ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD, DS, TC"]}
klub	 verb-pres 	klub	   To cover the body with ornaments (Jä), to put on luxuriously (Cs), to set up a tent ;  To put on; to wear ; Root given as klub < *s-'-lhub, *b-lhub? (Chang 1971: iv.12).
klubs	 verb-past 	klub	   To cover the body with ornaments (Jä), to put on luxuriously (Cs), to set up a tent ;  To put on; to wear ; Root given as klub < *s-'-lhub, *b-lhub? (Chang 1971: iv.12).
klub	 verb-fut 	klub	   To cover the body with ornaments (Jä), to put on luxuriously (Cs), to set up a tent ;  To put on; to wear ; Root given as klub < *s-'-lhub, *b-lhub? (Chang 1971: iv.12).
klubs	 verb-pres 	klub	Transitive: Voluntary:  To adorn, put on another person; to make someone put on ; To ornament, put on clothes ; 1. To wear.  2. To adorn, decorate ; Root given as g + lhub (Hahn 1999).
blubs	 verb-past 	klub	Transitive: Voluntary:  To adorn, put on another person; to make someone put on ; To ornament, put on clothes ; 1. To wear.  2. To adorn, decorate ; Root given as g + lhub (Hahn 1999).
klubs	 verb-fut 	klub	Transitive: Voluntary:  To adorn, put on another person; to make someone put on ; To ornament, put on clothes ; 1. To wear.  2. To adorn, decorate ; Root given as g + lhub (Hahn 1999).
klog	 verb-pres 	klog	Transitive: Voluntary:  To read ; To read aloud ; Root given as klag < *s-'-lhag (Chang 1971: iv.12)
blags	 verb-past 	klog	Transitive: Voluntary:  To read ; To read aloud ; Root given as klag < *s-'-lhag (Chang 1971: iv.12)
bklag	 verb-fut 	klog	Transitive: Voluntary:  To read ; To read aloud ; Root given as klag < *s-'-lhag (Chang 1971: iv.12)
dkag	 verb-pres 	dkag	Intransitive:   (of a melted liquid) To solidify in the process of cooling ;
dkag	 verb-past 	dkag	Intransitive:   (of a melted liquid) To solidify in the process of cooling ;
dkag	 verb-fut 	dkag	Intransitive:   (of a melted liquid) To solidify in the process of cooling ;
dka'	 verb-pres 	dka'	   To be difficult ;
dka'	 verb-past 	dka'	   To be difficult ;
	 verb-fut 	dka'	   To be difficult ;
dku	 verb-pres 	dku	Intransitive:  To drip, come down, fall ; 1. To brew, exude. 2. To fall. 3. (archaic) To remain, be left behind ;
dku	 verb-past 	dku	Intransitive:  To drip, come down, fall ; 1. To brew, exude. 2. To fall. 3. (archaic) To remain, be left behind ;
dku	 verb-fut 	dku	Intransitive:  To drip, come down, fall ; 1. To brew, exude. 2. To fall. 3. (archaic) To remain, be left behind ;
dkon(d)	 verb-pres 	dkon(d)	   To appear ;
dkon(d)	 verb-past 	dkon(d)	   To appear ;
dkon	 verb-fut 	dkon(d)	   To appear ;
dkyu	 verb-pres 	dkyu	Transitive:   1. To run a race 2. To presng out; to filter (Sch.) 3. To caper about (Jä) ;  To race, to run away ;To race (a horse, mule, &c.) ; To control, ride a horse ; See note at 'khyus
dkyus	 verb-past 	dkyu	Transitive:   1. To run a race 2. To presng out; to filter (Sch.) 3. To caper about (Jä) ;  To race, to run away ;To race (a horse, mule, &c.) ; To control, ride a horse ; See note at 'khyus
dkyu	 verb-fut 	dkyu	Transitive:   1. To run a race 2. To presng out; to filter (Sch.) 3. To caper about (Jä) ;  To race, to run away ;To race (a horse, mule, &c.) ; To control, ride a horse ; See note at 'khyus
dkyud	 verb-pres 	dkyud	   To forget ;
	 verb-past 	dkyud	   To forget ;
	 verb-fut 	dkyud	   To forget ;
dkri	 verb-pres 	dkri	Transitive: Involuntary:   1. (archaic) To conduct one's pupil from one stage of learning to another stage. 2. To wind; to wrap around. 3. To ensnare ;  To wind, to wrap up; to roll up; To bind something with string or rope ; 1. To bind, to tie. 2. To cover, impose, accuse, deprecate ;
dkris	 verb-past 	dkri	Transitive: Involuntary:   1. (archaic) To conduct one's pupil from one stage of learning to another stage. 2. To wind; to wrap around. 3. To ensnare ;  To wind, to wrap up; to roll up; To bind something with string or rope ; 1. To bind, to tie. 2. To cover, impose, accuse, deprecate ;
dkri	 verb-fut 	dkri	Transitive: Involuntary:   1. (archaic) To conduct one's pupil from one stage of learning to another stage. 2. To wind; to wrap around. 3. To ensnare ;  To wind, to wrap up; to roll up; To bind something with string or rope ; 1. To bind, to tie. 2. To cover, impose, accuse, deprecate ;
dkrig	 verb-pres 	dkrig	Transitive: Voluntary:  To make overcast; to gather clouds [sic], to pile up ;To fill up (with clouds, smoke &c.) ;To obscure ;
dkrigs	 verb-past 	dkrig	Transitive: Voluntary:  To make overcast; to gather clouds [sic], to pile up ;To fill up (with clouds, smoke &c.) ;To obscure ;
dkrig	 verb-fut 	dkrig	Transitive: Voluntary:  To make overcast; to gather clouds [sic], to pile up ;To fill up (with clouds, smoke &c.) ;To obscure ;
dkrug	 verb-pres 	dkrug	Transitive: Voluntary:  To disturb, put in motion; to turn, turn on a lathe ;To stir up; to disturb; to agitate; to disunite; to create differences by instigation ;1. To stir, churn (a kind of liquid with a stick). 2. To be unharmonious, disagreeable. 3. To finish, conclude ;  1. To disturb, stir, churn. 2. To agitate, disrupt. 3. To carve by turning on a lathe ; Root given as dkrug < *b-krug (Chang 1971: v.6).
dkrugs	 verb-past 	dkrug	Transitive: Voluntary:  To disturb, put in motion; to turn, turn on a lathe ;To stir up; to disturb; to agitate; to disunite; to create differences by instigation ;1. To stir, churn (a kind of liquid with a stick). 2. To be unharmonious, disagreeable. 3. To finish, conclude ;  1. To disturb, stir, churn. 2. To agitate, disrupt. 3. To carve by turning on a lathe ; Root given as dkrug < *b-krug (Chang 1971: v.6).
dkrug	 verb-fut 	dkrug	Transitive: Voluntary:  To disturb, put in motion; to turn, turn on a lathe ;To stir up; to disturb; to agitate; to disunite; to create differences by instigation ;1. To stir, churn (a kind of liquid with a stick). 2. To be unharmonious, disagreeable. 3. To finish, conclude ;  1. To disturb, stir, churn. 2. To agitate, disrupt. 3. To carve by turning on a lathe ; Root given as dkrug < *b-krug (Chang 1971: v.6).
dkrum	 verb-pres 	dkrum	Transitive: Voluntary:  To break; to crack ;To break into bits ; To break (fragile objects) ;
dkrums	 verb-past 	dkrum	Transitive: Voluntary:  To break; to crack ;To break into bits ; To break (fragile objects) ;
dkrum	 verb-fut 	dkrum	Transitive: Voluntary:  To break; to crack ;To break into bits ; To break (fragile objects) ;
dkrog	 verb-pres 	dkrog	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To churn; to agitate, mingle, trouble. 2. To rouse; scare up; to wag, e.g. the tail (Jä) ; To stir up; to churn; to give a feeling of surprise to; to disturb; to open. ;1. To stir, churn. 2. To startle, surprise ; 1. To churn, agitate, stir. 2. To disturb ; Root given as dkrog < b-krog (Chang 1971: v.6).
dkrogs	 verb-past 	dkrog	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To churn; to agitate, mingle, trouble. 2. To rouse; scare up; to wag, e.g. the tail (Jä) ; To stir up; to churn; to give a feeling of surprise to; to disturb; to open. ;1. To stir, churn. 2. To startle, surprise ; 1. To churn, agitate, stir. 2. To disturb ; Root given as dkrog < b-krog (Chang 1971: v.6).
dkrog	 verb-fut 	dkrog	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To churn; to agitate, mingle, trouble. 2. To rouse; scare up; to wag, e.g. the tail (Jä) ; To stir up; to churn; to give a feeling of surprise to; to disturb; to open. ;1. To stir, churn. 2. To startle, surprise ; 1. To churn, agitate, stir. 2. To disturb ; Root given as dkrog < b-krog (Chang 1971: v.6).
bkan	 verb-pres 	bkan	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To up-root, turn up anything by applying a stick at its foot or root.  2. To bend. 3. To put; to press; to apply (Jä). 4. To hold fast; to extend (Cs).  ;1. To raise up. 2. To firmly press ;  1. To turn face upwards. 2. To hold firmly, to press down. 3. To neglect ;
bkan(d)	 verb-past 	bkan	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To up-root, turn up anything by applying a stick at its foot or root.  2. To bend. 3. To put; to press; to apply (Jä). 4. To hold fast; to extend (Cs).  ;1. To raise up. 2. To firmly press ;  1. To turn face upwards. 2. To hold firmly, to press down. 3. To neglect ;
bkan	 verb-fut 	bkan	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To up-root, turn up anything by applying a stick at its foot or root.  2. To bend. 3. To put; to press; to apply (Jä). 4. To hold fast; to extend (Cs).  ;1. To raise up. 2. To firmly press ;  1. To turn face upwards. 2. To hold firmly, to press down. 3. To neglect ;
bku	 verb-pres 	bku	Transitive: Voluntary:  To make extract of a drug by drawing out the juice ;To extract juice by boiling ;To extract a medicinal infusion ;
bkus	 verb-past 	bku	Transitive: Voluntary:  To make extract of a drug by drawing out the juice ;To extract juice by boiling ;To extract a medicinal infusion ;
bku	 verb-fut 	bku	Transitive: Voluntary:  To make extract of a drug by drawing out the juice ;To extract juice by boiling ;To extract a medicinal infusion ;
bkur	 verb-pres 	bkur	Transitive: Voluntary:  I. To pay homage or reverence; to esteem. 2. To slander, to blaspheme ; To respect, venerate ;To respect ;To make offering, serve, respect ;
bkur(d)	 verb-past 	bkur	Transitive: Voluntary:  I. To pay homage or reverence; to esteem. 2. To slander, to blaspheme ; To respect, venerate ;To respect ;To make offering, serve, respect ;
bkur	 verb-fut 	bkur	Transitive: Voluntary:  I. To pay homage or reverence; to esteem. 2. To slander, to blaspheme ; To respect, venerate ;To respect ;To make offering, serve, respect ;
bkong	 verb-pres 	bkong	Transitive: Voluntary:  To break the pride of somebody; to cause to become a coward ; To discourage, intimidate, humble ; To frighten, intimidate, discourage ; Compare 'khong
bkongs	 verb-past 	bkong	Transitive: Voluntary:  To break the pride of somebody; to cause to become a coward ; To discourage, intimidate, humble ; To frighten, intimidate, discourage ; Compare 'khong
bkong	 verb-fut 	bkong	Transitive: Voluntary:  To break the pride of somebody; to cause to become a coward ; To discourage, intimidate, humble ; To frighten, intimidate, discourage ; Compare 'khong
bkong	 verb-pres 	bkong	Intransitive:   To be presnkled ;
bkong	 verb-past 	bkong	Intransitive:   To be presnkled ;
bkong	 verb-fut 	bkong	Intransitive:   To be presnkled ;
bkyon	 verb-pres 	bkyon	Transitive: Voluntary:  To beat, to chastise ;To scold; to admonish ;(honorific) To speak roughly to someone ; (honorific) To scold, reprimand ;
bkyon(d)	 verb-past 	bkyon	Transitive: Voluntary:  To beat, to chastise ;To scold; to admonish ;(honorific) To speak roughly to someone ; (honorific) To scold, reprimand ;
bkyon	 verb-fut 	bkyon	Transitive: Voluntary:  To beat, to chastise ;To scold; to admonish ;(honorific) To speak roughly to someone ; (honorific) To scold, reprimand ;
bkra	 verb-pres 	bkra	   To be beautiful, clear, multicolored ;
bkra	 verb-past 	bkra	   To be beautiful, clear, multicolored ;
	 verb-fut 	bkra	   To be beautiful, clear, multicolored ;
	 verb-pres 	bkrags	 Voluntary:  To roast, grill ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}(Tournadre & Dorje 2003: 228) .
Past (?):	 verb-past 	bkrags	 Voluntary:  To roast, grill ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}(Tournadre & Dorje 2003: 228) .
	 verb-fut 	bkrags	 Voluntary:  To roast, grill ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}(Tournadre & Dorje 2003: 228) .
krabs	 verb-pres 	bkrab	Transitive: Voluntary:  To choose or select from among many;(archaic) To select from among many ; To choose, select ;
bkrabs	 verb-past 	bkrab	Transitive: Voluntary:  To choose or select from among many;(archaic) To select from among many ; To choose, select ;
bkrab	 verb-fut 	bkrab	Transitive: Voluntary:  To choose or select from among many;(archaic) To select from among many ; To choose, select ;
bkral	 verb-pres 	bkral	Transitive: Voluntary:  To appoint ; To share tax payment ; To impose (a tax) ;
bkral	 verb-past 	bkral	Transitive: Voluntary:  To appoint ; To share tax payment ; To impose (a tax) ;
bkral	 verb-fut 	bkral	Transitive: Voluntary:  To appoint ; To share tax payment ; To impose (a tax) ;
bkres	 verb-pres 	bkres	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be hungry ;To feel hungry;
bkres	 verb-past 	bkres	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be hungry ;To feel hungry;
bkres	 verb-fut 	bkres	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be hungry ;To feel hungry;
bkros	 verb-pres 	bkros	   To choose; to select. ;
bkros	 verb-past 	bkros	   To choose; to select. ;
bkros	 verb-fut 	bkros	   To choose; to select. ;
brkam	 verb-pres 	rkam	Intransitive: Voluntary: To desire, long for (as a child for sweets) ; To be attached to, to yearn for;
brkam	 verb-past 	rkam	Intransitive: Voluntary: To desire, long for (as a child for sweets) ; To be attached to, to yearn for;
brkam	 verb-fut 	rkam	Intransitive: Voluntary: To desire, long for (as a child for sweets) ; To be attached to, to yearn for;
rku	 verb-pres 	rku	Transitive: Voluntary:  To steal; to rob. ;To steal; to take away unlawfully;To steal, to take by sleight the property of another which has not been given or paid for;
brkus	 verb-past 	rku	Transitive: Voluntary:  To steal; to rob. ;To steal; to take away unlawfully;To steal, to take by sleight the property of another which has not been given or paid for;
brku	 verb-fut 	rku	Transitive: Voluntary:  To steal; to rob. ;To steal; to take away unlawfully;To steal, to take by sleight the property of another which has not been given or paid for;
rko	 verb-pres 	rko	Intransitive: Voluntary:  1. To dig, dig out; to hoe. 2. To engrave; turn up; till ;To inscribe; to dig; to engrave; to print;To dig (a hole in the ground &c.) ;1. To dig, excavate. 2. To carve out letters and designs (in stone, wood &c.) ;
brkos	 verb-past 	rko	Intransitive: Voluntary:  1. To dig, dig out; to hoe. 2. To engrave; turn up; till ;To inscribe; to dig; to engrave; to print;To dig (a hole in the ground &c.) ;1. To dig, excavate. 2. To carve out letters and designs (in stone, wood &c.) ;
brko	 verb-fut 	rko	Intransitive: Voluntary:  1. To dig, dig out; to hoe. 2. To engrave; turn up; till ;To inscribe; to dig; to engrave; to print;To dig (a hole in the ground &c.) ;1. To dig, excavate. 2. To carve out letters and designs (in stone, wood &c.) ;
rkon	 verb-pres 	rkon	   To trap or catch in a trap. ; From colloquial data (Chang 1971: vii.16)
brkon(d)	 verb-past 	rkon	   To trap or catch in a trap. ; From colloquial data (Chang 1971: vii.16)
brkon	 verb-fut 	rkon	   To trap or catch in a trap. ; From colloquial data (Chang 1971: vii.16)
rkyal	 verb-pres 	rkyal	Transitive: Voluntary:  To swim, to amuse oneself by swimming (Jä) ;To swim;
brkyal	 verb-past 	rkyal	Transitive: Voluntary:  To swim, to amuse oneself by swimming (Jä) ;To swim;
rkyal	 verb-fut 	rkyal	Transitive: Voluntary:  To swim, to amuse oneself by swimming (Jä) ;To swim;
rkyong	 verb-pres 	rkyong	Transitive: Voluntary:  To stretch, extend, stretch forth (one's hands to a person), put out (the tongue); spread; distend (the wings, a curtain) ; To stretch out one's arms; to extend ; To extend, stretch (the feet, hands &c.) ; To stretch, spread out, extend ; Related to rgyong
brkyangs	 verb-past 	rkyong	Transitive: Voluntary:  To stretch, extend, stretch forth (one's hands to a person), put out (the tongue); spread; distend (the wings, a curtain) ; To stretch out one's arms; to extend ; To extend, stretch (the feet, hands &c.) ; To stretch, spread out, extend ; Related to rgyong
brkyang	 verb-fut 	rkyong	Transitive: Voluntary:  To stretch, extend, stretch forth (one's hands to a person), put out (the tongue); spread; distend (the wings, a curtain) ; To stretch out one's arms; to extend ; To extend, stretch (the feet, hands &c.) ; To stretch, spread out, extend ; Related to rgyong
lkug	 verb-pres 	lkugs	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To become foolish; to become dumb ;To become unable to speak clearly ;To be dumb, to be unable to talk, to loose one's voice ;
lkugs	 verb-past 	lkugs	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To become foolish; to become dumb ;To become unable to speak clearly ;To be dumb, to be unable to talk, to loose one's voice ;
lkug	 verb-fut 	lkugs	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To become foolish; to become dumb ;To become unable to speak clearly ;To be dumb, to be unable to talk, to loose one's voice ;
skad	 verb-pres 	skad	Transitive:   To say, tell, relate ; The prestten equivalent of ;
skad	 verb-past 	skad	Transitive:   To say, tell, relate ; The prestten equivalent of ;
skad	 verb-fut 	skad	Transitive:   To say, tell, relate ; The prestten equivalent of ;
skam	 verb-pres 	skam	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To make thirsty ; To dry up, dry out ; Compare skem
bskams	 verb-past 	skam	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To make thirsty ; To dry up, dry out ; Compare skem
bskam	 verb-fut 	skam	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To make thirsty ; To dry up, dry out ; Compare skem
skar	 verb-pres 	skar	 Voluntary:  To hang up; to weigh. ;
bskar	 verb-past 	skar	 Voluntary:  To hang up; to weigh. ;
	 verb-fut 	skar	 Voluntary:  To hang up; to weigh. ;
skug	 verb-pres 	skug	Intransitive: Involuntary:  For the winner not comply with the game of taking wealth, after a dispute over victory and defeat ; To make a bet, to bet, to gambol ;
bskugs	 verb-past 	skug	Intransitive: Involuntary:  For the winner not comply with the game of taking wealth, after a dispute over victory and defeat ; To make a bet, to bet, to gambol ;
bskug	 verb-fut 	skug	Intransitive: Involuntary:  For the winner not comply with the game of taking wealth, after a dispute over victory and defeat ; To make a bet, to bet, to gambol ;
skung	 verb-pres 	skung	Transitive: Voluntary:  To hide in the ground, to bury, to inter ;To hide; to keep secret;1. To hide away. 2. To preste the symbol 'X' as a substitute for following words which are repeated in lines of verse, or other expression;To hide, conceal ;
bskungs	 verb-past 	skung	Transitive: Voluntary:  To hide in the ground, to bury, to inter ;To hide; to keep secret;1. To hide away. 2. To preste the symbol 'X' as a substitute for following words which are repeated in lines of verse, or other expression;To hide, conceal ;
bskung	 verb-fut 	skung	Transitive: Voluntary:  To hide in the ground, to bury, to inter ;To hide; to keep secret;1. To hide away. 2. To preste the symbol 'X' as a substitute for following words which are repeated in lines of verse, or other expression;To hide, conceal ;
skud	 verb-pres 	skud	Transitive: Voluntary:  To smear, to besmear; to daub ;To anoint; to apply oil or ointment;To put (dye, oil &c.) on the surface of something ;  To apply, put on, cover, smear ;
bskus	 verb-past 	skud	Transitive: Voluntary:  To smear, to besmear; to daub ;To anoint; to apply oil or ointment;To put (dye, oil &c.) on the surface of something ;  To apply, put on, cover, smear ;
bsku	 verb-fut 	skud	Transitive: Voluntary:  To smear, to besmear; to daub ;To anoint; to apply oil or ointment;To put (dye, oil &c.) on the surface of something ;  To apply, put on, cover, smear ;
skum	 verb-pres 	skum	Transitive: Voluntary:  To contract; to be drawn up; to be paralyzed ;To withdraw, to draw in; to make shorter or smaller; to contract; to conceal;The opposite of produce, extend ; 1. To contract, bend, pull in. 2. To conceal, to obfuscate;
bskums	 verb-past 	skum	Transitive: Voluntary:  To contract; to be drawn up; to be paralyzed ;To withdraw, to draw in; to make shorter or smaller; to contract; to conceal;The opposite of produce, extend ; 1. To contract, bend, pull in. 2. To conceal, to obfuscate;
bskum	 verb-fut 	skum	Transitive: Voluntary:  To contract; to be drawn up; to be paralyzed ;To withdraw, to draw in; to make shorter or smaller; to contract; to conceal;The opposite of produce, extend ; 1. To contract, bend, pull in. 2. To conceal, to obfuscate;
skur	 verb-pres 	skur	Transitive: Voluntary:  To bestow, give, send ;To make someone carry; to send; to cause to venerate on, to make someone pay respect;1. To deliver to the place of delivery by entrusting (a thing, letter &c.) with another person, post office. 2. For something to be carried (on the water, wind &c.);1. To send, dispatch. 2. To give, bestow, entrust, assign ;
bskur(d)	 verb-past 	skur	Transitive: Voluntary:  To bestow, give, send ;To make someone carry; to send; to cause to venerate on, to make someone pay respect;1. To deliver to the place of delivery by entrusting (a thing, letter &c.) with another person, post office. 2. For something to be carried (on the water, wind &c.);1. To send, dispatch. 2. To give, bestow, entrust, assign ;
bskur	 verb-fut 	skur	Transitive: Voluntary:  To bestow, give, send ;To make someone carry; to send; to cause to venerate on, to make someone pay respect;1. To deliver to the place of delivery by entrusting (a thing, letter &c.) with another person, post office. 2. For something to be carried (on the water, wind &c.);1. To send, dispatch. 2. To give, bestow, entrust, assign ;
skul	 verb-pres 	skul	Transitive: Voluntary:  To excite; to exhort, admonish, enjoin ;To induce; exhort, urge; to request to do something; to persuade; To motivate, incite ; 1. To induce, compel, persuade. 2. To incite, motivate ;
bskul(d)	 verb-past 	skul	Transitive: Voluntary:  To excite; to exhort, admonish, enjoin ;To induce; exhort, urge; to request to do something; to persuade; To motivate, incite ; 1. To induce, compel, persuade. 2. To incite, motivate ;
bskul	 verb-fut 	skul	Transitive: Voluntary:  To excite; to exhort, admonish, enjoin ;To induce; exhort, urge; to request to do something; to persuade; To motivate, incite ; 1. To induce, compel, persuade. 2. To incite, motivate ;
skem	 verb-pres 	skem	Intransitive: Voluntary:  To make dry, to dry up ;To dry;To make fewer, to dehydrate ; . To dry out, to dry;
bskams	 verb-past 	skem	Intransitive: Voluntary:  To make dry, to dry up ;To dry;To make fewer, to dehydrate ; . To dry out, to dry;
bskam	 verb-fut 	skem	Intransitive: Voluntary:  To make dry, to dry up ;To dry;To make fewer, to dehydrate ; . To dry out, to dry;
skems	 verb-pres 	skem	Transitive: Involuntary:  To wilt (of plants), become dry ;
bskams	 verb-past 	skem	Transitive: Involuntary:  To wilt (of plants), become dry ;
bskam	 verb-fut 	skem	Transitive: Involuntary:  To wilt (of plants), become dry ;
sko	 verb-pres 	sko	Transitive: Voluntary:  To select; to appoint, nominate, commission, charge ; To appoint ;  For leaders or people to give responsibility to a person for a task ; To appoint. 2. To be determined by the power of past deeds ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Uray 1972: 19) ."]}
bskos	 verb-past 	sko	Transitive: Voluntary:  To select; to appoint, nominate, commission, charge ; To appoint ;  For leaders or people to give responsibility to a person for a task ; To appoint. 2. To be determined by the power of past deeds ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Uray 1972: 19) ."]}
bsko	 verb-fut 	sko	Transitive: Voluntary:  To select; to appoint, nominate, commission, charge ; To appoint ;  For leaders or people to give responsibility to a person for a task ; To appoint. 2. To be determined by the power of past deeds ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Uray 1972: 19) ."]}
skong	 verb-pres 	skong	Transitive: Voluntary:  To fulfill ; To complete; to add; to satisfy, fulfill a wish ; 1. To fulfill. 2. To make up a deficiency; to supplement ;
bskangs	 verb-past 	skong	Transitive: Voluntary:  To fulfill ; To complete; to add; to satisfy, fulfill a wish ; 1. To fulfill. 2. To make up a deficiency; to supplement ;
bskang	 verb-fut 	skong	Transitive: Voluntary:  To fulfill ; To complete; to add; to satisfy, fulfill a wish ; 1. To fulfill. 2. To make up a deficiency; to supplement ;
skong	 verb-pres 	skong	Transitive: Voluntary:  To summon, convene ;
bskongs	 verb-past 	skong	Transitive: Voluntary:  To summon, convene ;
bskong	 verb-fut 	skong	Transitive: Voluntary:  To summon, convene ;
skon	 verb-pres 	skon	Transitive: Voluntary:  To dress; to clothe another person ; To make someone put on a dress or an ornament ; 1. To make someone wear (wools, a hat &c.). 2. To cause an action similar to the wearing of hats or clothes (e.g. bridle a horse, tie a rope around a calf's neck) ; To dress, put on clothes, to cover ; prestten Tibetan skon
bskon(d)	 verb-past 	skon	Transitive: Voluntary:  To dress; to clothe another person ; To make someone put on a dress or an ornament ; 1. To make someone wear (wools, a hat &c.). 2. To cause an action similar to the wearing of hats or clothes (e.g. bridle a horse, tie a rope around a calf's neck) ; To dress, put on clothes, to cover ; prestten Tibetan skon
bskon	 verb-fut 	skon	Transitive: Voluntary:  To dress; to clothe another person ; To make someone put on a dress or an ornament ; 1. To make someone wear (wools, a hat &c.). 2. To cause an action similar to the wearing of hats or clothes (e.g. bridle a horse, tie a rope around a calf's neck) ; To dress, put on clothes, to cover ; prestten Tibetan skon
skom	 verb-pres 	skom	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   For a desire to drink to arise when the liquid of the body is depleted ; To suffer because the wetness within the mouth has dried ; Compare skam
skom	 verb-past 	skom	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   For a desire to drink to arise when the liquid of the body is depleted ; To suffer because the wetness within the mouth has dried ; Compare skam
skom	 verb-fut 	skom	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   For a desire to drink to arise when the liquid of the body is depleted ; To suffer because the wetness within the mouth has dried ; Compare skam
skor	 verb-pres 	skor	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To fill with; to surround, encircle, enclose, besiege; to come again and again; to revolve. 2. To traverse, ride round a thing. 3. To circumambulate ; To turn round; to turn a wheel; to take a round; to encircle, surround ; 1. To make something turn around the circumference of a center. 2. To lead, take control. 3. To encircle, surround. 4. To change directions, shift allegiances. 5. To trick, mislead ; 1. To turn around, rotate. 2. To surround, encircle ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
bskor(d)	 verb-past 	skor	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To fill with; to surround, encircle, enclose, besiege; to come again and again; to revolve. 2. To traverse, ride round a thing. 3. To circumambulate ; To turn round; to turn a wheel; to take a round; to encircle, surround ; 1. To make something turn around the circumference of a center. 2. To lead, take control. 3. To encircle, surround. 4. To change directions, shift allegiances. 5. To trick, mislead ; 1. To turn around, rotate. 2. To surround, encircle ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
bskor	 verb-fut 	skor	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To fill with; to surround, encircle, enclose, besiege; to come again and again; to revolve. 2. To traverse, ride round a thing. 3. To circumambulate ; To turn round; to turn a wheel; to take a round; to encircle, surround ; 1. To make something turn around the circumference of a center. 2. To lead, take control. 3. To encircle, surround. 4. To change directions, shift allegiances. 5. To trick, mislead ; 1. To turn around, rotate. 2. To surround, encircle ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
skor	 verb-pres 	skor	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To go, wander, roam, loaf ; To wander, to roam, to move about ; In Situ's great commentary only bskor
bskor	 verb-past 	skor	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To go, wander, roam, loaf ; To wander, to roam, to move about ; In Situ's great commentary only bskor
bskor	 verb-fut 	skor	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To go, wander, roam, loaf ; To wander, to roam, to move about ; In Situ's great commentary only bskor
skol	 verb-pres 	skol	Transitive: Voluntary:  To boil ;
bskol(d)	 verb-past 	skol	Transitive: Voluntary:  To boil ;
bskol	 verb-fut 	skol	Transitive: Voluntary:  To boil ;
skyas	 verb-pres 	skya	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To carry; convey to a place (a quantity of stones, wood, water, &c.). 2. To change place ; To move one's residence or dwelling; to migrate, transfer ; 1. To move, to move from one place to another, to migrate. 2. (archaic) To deliver, convey ;
bskyas	 verb-past 	skya	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To carry; convey to a place (a quantity of stones, wood, water, &c.). 2. To change place ; To move one's residence or dwelling; to migrate, transfer ; 1. To move, to move from one place to another, to migrate. 2. (archaic) To deliver, convey ;
bskya	 verb-fut 	skya	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To carry; convey to a place (a quantity of stones, wood, water, &c.). 2. To change place ; To move one's residence or dwelling; to migrate, transfer ; 1. To move, to move from one place to another, to migrate. 2. (archaic) To deliver, convey ;
skyag	 verb-pres 	skyag	   1. To spread, lay out, expand. 2. (in West) To slaughter, murder (Jä) ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}CD .
bskyogs	 verb-past 	skyag	   1. To spread, lay out, expand. 2. (in West) To slaughter, murder (Jä) ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}CD .
bskyag	 verb-fut 	skyag	   1. To spread, lay out, expand. 2. (in West) To slaughter, murder (Jä) ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}CD .
skyad	 verb-pres 	skyad	   To kill ; 1. To kill. 2. To compete ;
bskyad	 verb-past 	skyad	   To kill ; 1. To kill. 2. To compete ;
bskyad	 verb-fut 	skyad	   To kill ; 1. To kill. 2. To compete ;
skyi	 verb-pres 	skyi	Transitive: Voluntary:  To borrow, especially money or goods ; To lend; to borrow; to give or take something on loan ; To loan, borrow ; Certainly the same verb as skyin
bskyis	 verb-past 	skyi	Transitive: Voluntary:  To borrow, especially money or goods ; To lend; to borrow; to give or take something on loan ; To loan, borrow ; Certainly the same verb as skyin
bskyi	 verb-fut 	skyi	Transitive: Voluntary:  To borrow, especially money or goods ; To lend; to borrow; to give or take something on loan ; To loan, borrow ; Certainly the same verb as skyin
skyig	 verb-pres 	skyig	   To cause to tie, to fasten ;
bskyigs	 verb-past 	skyig	   To cause to tie, to fasten ;
bskyig	 verb-fut 	skyig	   To cause to tie, to fasten ;
skyig	 verb-pres 	skyig	   To hiccup ;
	 verb-past 	skyig	   To hiccup ;
	 verb-fut 	skyig	   To hiccup ;
skyin	 verb-pres 	skyin	   To borrow ; To lend, to borrow ; Compare skyi
bskyin	 verb-past 	skyin	   To borrow ; To lend, to borrow ; Compare skyi
bskyin	 verb-fut 	skyin	   To borrow ; To lend, to borrow ; Compare skyi
skyil	 verb-pres 	skyil	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To pen up, shut up; to dam up a river. 2. (Jä) to bend, especially the legs when sitting on the ground after the oriental fashion. To bend in another's leg by a kick from behind; to bend the bow ; To dam; to store ; 1. To dam up, to pen up, contain. 2. To keep ;
bskyil(d)	 verb-past 	skyil	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To pen up, shut up; to dam up a river. 2. (Jä) to bend, especially the legs when sitting on the ground after the oriental fashion. To bend in another's leg by a kick from behind; to bend the bow ; To dam; to store ; 1. To dam up, to pen up, contain. 2. To keep ;
bskyil	 verb-fut 	skyil	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To pen up, shut up; to dam up a river. 2. (Jä) to bend, especially the legs when sitting on the ground after the oriental fashion. To bend in another's leg by a kick from behind; to bend the bow ; To dam; to store ; 1. To dam up, to pen up, contain. 2. To keep ;
skyug	 verb-pres 	skyug	 Voluntary:  To vomit, to eject (e.g. blood). 2. To lose color, to stain ; To vomit; to come out forcefully ;
skyugs	 verb-past 	skyug	 Voluntary:  To vomit, to eject (e.g. blood). 2. To lose color, to stain ; To vomit; to come out forcefully ;
skyug	 verb-fut 	skyug	 Voluntary:  To vomit, to eject (e.g. blood). 2. To lose color, to stain ; To vomit; to come out forcefully ;
skyug	 verb-pres 	skyug	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To cause to vomit ; To release the contents of the viscera from the mouth ; To vomit, to wretch ;
bskyugs	 verb-past 	skyug	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To cause to vomit ; To release the contents of the viscera from the mouth ; To vomit, to wretch ;
bskyug	 verb-fut 	skyug	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To cause to vomit ; To release the contents of the viscera from the mouth ; To vomit, to wretch ;
skyung	 verb-pres 	skyung	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To diminish, reduce. 2. (Jä) (In Central Tibet) To leave behind; to lay aside (a task) ; To reduce or diminish one's pride or voice; to subdue; to give up ; 1. To cast off, leave far behind, to abandon and put behind; to give up completely, to discard completely. 2. To lessen (in amount, degree), to reduce (in size, extent) ;This word is discussed briefly in Emmerick (1978: 105).
bskyungs	 verb-past 	skyung	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To diminish, reduce. 2. (Jä) (In Central Tibet) To leave behind; to lay aside (a task) ; To reduce or diminish one's pride or voice; to subdue; to give up ; 1. To cast off, leave far behind, to abandon and put behind; to give up completely, to discard completely. 2. To lessen (in amount, degree), to reduce (in size, extent) ;This word is discussed briefly in Emmerick (1978: 105).
bskyung	 verb-fut 	skyung	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To diminish, reduce. 2. (Jä) (In Central Tibet) To leave behind; to lay aside (a task) ; To reduce or diminish one's pride or voice; to subdue; to give up ; 1. To cast off, leave far behind, to abandon and put behind; to give up completely, to discard completely. 2. To lessen (in amount, degree), to reduce (in size, extent) ;This word is discussed briefly in Emmerick (1978: 105).
skyud	 verb-pres 	skyud	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To forget. 2. To leave off (Jä). 3. To communicate, swallow (Sch.) ; To forget; to fail to recall ; (archaic) To forget ; To forget ;
bskyud	 verb-past 	skyud	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To forget. 2. To leave off (Jä). 3. To communicate, swallow (Sch.) ; To forget; to fail to recall ; (archaic) To forget ; To forget ;
bskyud	 verb-fut 	skyud	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To forget. 2. To leave off (Jä). 3. To communicate, swallow (Sch.) ; To forget; to fail to recall ; (archaic) To forget ; To forget ;
skyur	 verb-pres 	skyur	Transitive: Voluntary:  To throw, to cast; to leave off ; To throw or to cast off, to renounce or give up ; 1. To throw away, discard (rubbish). 2. To abandon, leave behind (homeland, troubles) ; 1. (Mental) To give up on, to abandon, to forsake, to go back on something which one has previously adhered to, to leave behind something for something else seen as better. 2. (Physical) To toss off, away, to cast off something which is now seen as rubbish or as useless ;
bskyur(d)	 verb-past 	skyur	Transitive: Voluntary:  To throw, to cast; to leave off ; To throw or to cast off, to renounce or give up ; 1. To throw away, discard (rubbish). 2. To abandon, leave behind (homeland, troubles) ; 1. (Mental) To give up on, to abandon, to forsake, to go back on something which one has previously adhered to, to leave behind something for something else seen as better. 2. (Physical) To toss off, away, to cast off something which is now seen as rubbish or as useless ;
bskyur	 verb-fut 	skyur	Transitive: Voluntary:  To throw, to cast; to leave off ; To throw or to cast off, to renounce or give up ; 1. To throw away, discard (rubbish). 2. To abandon, leave behind (homeland, troubles) ; 1. (Mental) To give up on, to abandon, to forsake, to go back on something which one has previously adhered to, to leave behind something for something else seen as better. 2. (Physical) To toss off, away, to cast off something which is now seen as rubbish or as useless ;
skye	 verb-pres 	skye	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be born, arise ; To be born; to come out newly ; 1. kinds of vegetation having first sprouted a shoot, to develop fruit. 2. To issues from the mother's womb. 3. To mature, rise up like the sprouting of vegetation. 4. To become larger or longer. 5. To arise, occur ; 1. To be born, to arise, to grow anew. 2. To grow, increase ;
skyes	 verb-past 	skye	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be born, arise ; To be born; to come out newly ; 1. kinds of vegetation having first sprouted a shoot, to develop fruit. 2. To issues from the mother's womb. 3. To mature, rise up like the sprouting of vegetation. 4. To become larger or longer. 5. To arise, occur ; 1. To be born, to arise, to grow anew. 2. To grow, increase ;
skye	 verb-fut 	skye	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be born, arise ; To be born; to come out newly ; 1. kinds of vegetation having first sprouted a shoot, to develop fruit. 2. To issues from the mother's womb. 3. To mature, rise up like the sprouting of vegetation. 4. To become larger or longer. 5. To arise, occur ; 1. To be born, to arise, to grow anew. 2. To grow, increase ;
skyeng	 verb-pres 	skyeng	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be ashamed ; To be ashamed; to be embarrassed ; To be abashed, embarrassed, circumspect (especially regarding speech) ; I could see here two verbs (skyengs
skyengs	 verb-past 	skyeng	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be ashamed ; To be ashamed; to be embarrassed ; To be abashed, embarrassed, circumspect (especially regarding speech) ; I could see here two verbs (skyengs
skyeng	 verb-fut 	skyeng	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be ashamed ; To be ashamed; to be embarrassed ; To be abashed, embarrassed, circumspect (especially regarding speech) ; I could see here two verbs (skyengs
skyeng	 verb-pres 	skyeng	   To make shameful or to cause to be ashamed; to belittle; to bring down ;
bskyengs	 verb-past 	skyeng	   To make shameful or to cause to be ashamed; to belittle; to bring down ;
bskyeng	 verb-fut 	skyeng	   To make shameful or to cause to be ashamed; to belittle; to bring down ;
skyed	 verb-pres 	skyed	Transitive: Voluntary:  To procreate, generate, bring forth. give birth to ; To make progress, to increase, widen ;
bskyed	 verb-past 	skyed	Transitive: Voluntary:  To procreate, generate, bring forth. give birth to ; To make progress, to increase, widen ;
bskyed	 verb-fut 	skyed	Transitive: Voluntary:  To procreate, generate, bring forth. give birth to ; To make progress, to increase, widen ;
skyem	 verb-pres 	skyem	   To be thirsty ; Root given as skyem < skyam < skam (Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15).
skyems	 verb-past 	skyem	   To be thirsty ; Root given as skyem < skyam < skam (Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15).
	 verb-fut 	skyem	   To be thirsty ; Root given as skyem < skyam < skam (Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15).
skyel(d)	 verb-pres 	skyel	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To carry, to take away. 2. To send. 3. To risk, to stake (one's life). 4. To use, to employ ; To deliver a person or thing; to see off, to kiss; to lose; to vow; to accomplish ; 1. To go from one place to another place accompanying another person in order to show love, to protect, or supervise. 2. To raise a thing from one place to another place. 3.  To use, employ. 4. To finish, perfect ; 1. To escort, to see off. 2. To send, transport, deliver, 3. To do, to apply. 4. To pass, spend (of time) ; Root given as skyal.
bskyal(d)	 verb-past 	skyel	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To carry, to take away. 2. To send. 3. To risk, to stake (one's life). 4. To use, to employ ; To deliver a person or thing; to see off, to kiss; to lose; to vow; to accomplish ; 1. To go from one place to another place accompanying another person in order to show love, to protect, or supervise. 2. To raise a thing from one place to another place. 3.  To use, employ. 4. To finish, perfect ; 1. To escort, to see off. 2. To send, transport, deliver, 3. To do, to apply. 4. To pass, spend (of time) ; Root given as skyal.
bskyal	 verb-fut 	skyel	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To carry, to take away. 2. To send. 3. To risk, to stake (one's life). 4. To use, to employ ; To deliver a person or thing; to see off, to kiss; to lose; to vow; to accomplish ; 1. To go from one place to another place accompanying another person in order to show love, to protect, or supervise. 2. To raise a thing from one place to another place. 3.  To use, employ. 4. To finish, perfect ; 1. To escort, to see off. 2. To send, transport, deliver, 3. To do, to apply. 4. To pass, spend (of time) ; Root given as skyal.
skyel	 verb-pres 	skyel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To conduct, accompany ;
bskyel	 verb-past 	skyel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To conduct, accompany ;
bskyel	 verb-fut 	skyel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To conduct, accompany ;
skyo	 verb-pres 	skyo	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be sad, to be gloomy ; 1. To be irritated. 2. To be disaffected ; 1. To be sad, to be miserable.  2. To be fed up with, to be weary of, to be disenchanted with, to have distaste for ;
skyo	 verb-past 	skyo	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be sad, to be gloomy ; 1. To be irritated. 2. To be disaffected ; 1. To be sad, to be miserable.  2. To be fed up with, to be weary of, to be disenchanted with, to have distaste for ;
skyo	 verb-fut 	skyo	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be sad, to be gloomy ; 1. To be irritated. 2. To be disaffected ; 1. To be sad, to be miserable.  2. To be fed up with, to be weary of, to be disenchanted with, to have distaste for ;
skyog	 verb-pres 	skyog	Transitive: Voluntary:  To turn, to turn away, aside ; To turn aside, to drive aside ; 1. To change direction. 2. To bend, make crooked ; 1. To turn. 2. To move over, to give way ;
bskyogs	 verb-past 	skyog	Transitive: Voluntary:  To turn, to turn away, aside ; To turn aside, to drive aside ; 1. To change direction. 2. To bend, make crooked ; 1. To turn. 2. To move over, to give way ;
bskyog	 verb-fut 	skyog	Transitive: Voluntary:  To turn, to turn away, aside ; To turn aside, to drive aside ; 1. To change direction. 2. To bend, make crooked ; 1. To turn. 2. To move over, to give way ;
skyong	 verb-pres 	skyong	Intransitive:   To go on a long road ;
skyong	 verb-past 	skyong	Intransitive:   To go on a long road ;
skyong	 verb-fut 	skyong	Intransitive:   To go on a long road ;
skyong	 verb-pres 	skyong	Transitive: Voluntary:  To guard; to keep; to defend; to save; to preserve ; To look after; to nurse, cherish; to take care of; to administer ; 1. To look after, support, take care of. 2. To supervise, direct, support ; 1. To sustain, take care of, tend, look after. 2. To protect, guard. 3. To manage, do, hold, control, carry out ;
bskyangs	 verb-past 	skyong	Transitive: Voluntary:  To guard; to keep; to defend; to save; to preserve ; To look after; to nurse, cherish; to take care of; to administer ; 1. To look after, support, take care of. 2. To supervise, direct, support ; 1. To sustain, take care of, tend, look after. 2. To protect, guard. 3. To manage, do, hold, control, carry out ;
bskyang	 verb-fut 	skyong	Transitive: Voluntary:  To guard; to keep; to defend; to save; to preserve ; To look after; to nurse, cherish; to take care of; to administer ; 1. To look after, support, take care of. 2. To supervise, direct, support ; 1. To sustain, take care of, tend, look after. 2. To protect, guard. 3. To manage, do, hold, control, carry out ;
skyod	 verb-pres 	skyod	Transitive: Voluntary:  To move; to go, pass on ;  To move ; To move, agitate ; To move, stir, agitate ;
bskyod	 verb-past 	skyod	Transitive: Voluntary:  To move; to go, pass on ;  To move ; To move, agitate ; To move, stir, agitate ;
bskyod	 verb-fut 	skyod	Transitive: Voluntary:  To move; to go, pass on ;  To move ; To move, agitate ; To move, stir, agitate ;
skyod	 verb-pres 	skyod	Transitive: Voluntary:  (In West) (Respectful) To go, to walk ; To cause to go or proceed ; To go ;  To go ;
bskyod	 verb-past 	skyod	Transitive: Voluntary:  (In West) (Respectful) To go, to walk ; To cause to go or proceed ; To go ;  To go ;
bskyod	 verb-fut 	skyod	Transitive: Voluntary:  (In West) (Respectful) To go, to walk ; To cause to go or proceed ; To go ;  To go ;
skyon	 verb-pres 	skyon	   To make defective; to become defective ;
skyon(d)	 verb-past 	skyon	   To make defective; to become defective ;
skyon	 verb-fut 	skyon	   To make defective; to become defective ;
skyon(d)	 verb-pres 	skyon	Transitive: Voluntary:  To put astride upon a thing ; To put on a horse ; 1. To have mount, place astride. 2. To place on top of. 3. To make (someone) wear, to dress (someone) ; 1. To place someone on a horse, to put astride. 2. To place above, place upon. 3. (honorific) Equivalent of the auxiliary verb ; Compare gyon
bskyon	 verb-past 	skyon	Transitive: Voluntary:  To put astride upon a thing ; To put on a horse ; 1. To have mount, place astride. 2. To place on top of. 3. To make (someone) wear, to dress (someone) ; 1. To place someone on a horse, to put astride. 2. To place above, place upon. 3. (honorific) Equivalent of the auxiliary verb ; Compare gyon
bskyon	 verb-fut 	skyon	Transitive: Voluntary:  To put astride upon a thing ; To put on a horse ; 1. To have mount, place astride. 2. To place on top of. 3. To make (someone) wear, to dress (someone) ; 1. To place someone on a horse, to put astride. 2. To place above, place upon. 3. (honorific) Equivalent of the auxiliary verb ; Compare gyon
	 verb-pres 	skyon	  
	 verb-past 	skyon	  
	 verb-fut 	skyon	  
skyob	 verb-pres 	skyob	Transitive: Voluntary:  To protect; to defend, preserve, save ; To protect, give shelter; to defend, to rescue ; To help, save from danger ; To protect ; Related to the noun skyob
skyabs	 verb-past 	skyob	Transitive: Voluntary:  To protect; to defend, preserve, save ; To protect, give shelter; to defend, to rescue ; To help, save from danger ; To protect ; Related to the noun skyob
skyab	 verb-fut 	skyob	Transitive: Voluntary:  To protect; to defend, preserve, save ; To protect, give shelter; to defend, to rescue ; To help, save from danger ; To protect ; Related to the noun skyob
skyom	 verb-pres 	skyom	Transitive: Voluntary:  (Rare in colloquial) 1. To pour; to pour out, agitate, stir up. 2. (Lex) To give ; To swish, to stir a liquid; to cause turbulence ; To stir, agitate (a liquid) ; To stir, shake ;
bskyams	 verb-past 	skyom	Transitive: Voluntary:  (Rare in colloquial) 1. To pour; to pour out, agitate, stir up. 2. (Lex) To give ; To swish, to stir a liquid; to cause turbulence ; To stir, agitate (a liquid) ; To stir, shake ;
bskyam	 verb-fut 	skyom	Transitive: Voluntary:  (Rare in colloquial) 1. To pour; to pour out, agitate, stir up. 2. (Lex) To give ; To swish, to stir a liquid; to cause turbulence ; To stir, agitate (a liquid) ; To stir, shake ;
skyor	 verb-pres 	skyor	Transitive: Voluntary:  To repeat, recite by heart ; To repeat; to do, make something again; to reproduce, imitate; to recite ;  To read aloud, repeat ; To repeat, to do over again ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["LZ"]}
bskyar	 verb-past 	skyor	Transitive: Voluntary:  To repeat, recite by heart ; To repeat; to do, make something again; to reproduce, imitate; to recite ;  To read aloud, repeat ; To repeat, to do over again ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["LZ"]}
bskyar	 verb-fut 	skyor	Transitive: Voluntary:  To repeat, recite by heart ; To repeat; to do, make something again; to reproduce, imitate; to recite ;  To read aloud, repeat ; To repeat, to do over again ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["LZ"]}
skyor	 verb-pres 	skyor	Transitive: Voluntary:  To hold up, to prop, to paste ; To support upright; to support from all sides so as to stand; to help, to support ; 1. To prevent a person or thing from falling down. 2. To help, do, protect ; To support, prop up, brace ;
bskyor(d)	 verb-past 	skyor	Transitive: Voluntary:  To hold up, to prop, to paste ; To support upright; to support from all sides so as to stand; to help, to support ; 1. To prevent a person or thing from falling down. 2. To help, do, protect ; To support, prop up, brace ;
bskyor	 verb-fut 	skyor	Transitive: Voluntary:  To hold up, to prop, to paste ; To support upright; to support from all sides so as to stand; to help, to support ; 1. To prevent a person or thing from falling down. 2. To help, do, protect ; To support, prop up, brace ;
skrag	 verb-pres 	skrag	Intransitive: Involuntary:  (nearly always combined with ; To be frightened, to be terrified ; To become afraid ; To be afraid ; Cognate with adjective skrag
skrags	 verb-past 	skrag	Intransitive: Involuntary:  (nearly always combined with ; To be frightened, to be terrified ; To become afraid ; To be afraid ; Cognate with adjective skrag
skrag	 verb-fut 	skrag	Intransitive: Involuntary:  (nearly always combined with ; To be frightened, to be terrified ; To become afraid ; To be afraid ; Cognate with adjective skrag
skrang	 verb-pres 	skrang	Transitive: Involuntary:  To swell ; To swell, be swollen ; For the flesh to swell up due to injury to the body or illness ; To swell up ;
skrangs	 verb-past 	skrang	Transitive: Involuntary:  To swell ; To swell, be swollen ; For the flesh to swell up due to injury to the body or illness ; To swell up ;
skrang	 verb-fut 	skrang	Transitive: Involuntary:  To swell ; To swell, be swollen ; For the flesh to swell up due to injury to the body or illness ; To swell up ;
skrab	 verb-pres 	skrab	   To beat the ground with one's feet; to stamp, tread; to dance ; To cause to dance; to cause to select ; (archaic) To dance ;
bskrabs	 verb-past 	skrab	   To beat the ground with one's feet; to stamp, tread; to dance ; To cause to dance; to cause to select ; (archaic) To dance ;
bskrab	 verb-fut 	skrab	   To beat the ground with one's feet; to stamp, tread; to dance ; To cause to dance; to cause to select ; (archaic) To dance ;
skri	 verb-pres 	skri	 Voluntary:  To conduct, to send (Cs.) ; To give, send ;
bskris	 verb-past 	skri	 Voluntary:  To conduct, to send (Cs.) ; To give, send ;
bskri	 verb-fut 	skri	 Voluntary:  To conduct, to send (Cs.) ; To give, send ;
skru	 verb-pres 	skru	Transitive: Voluntary:  To wait (Sch.); to cut ; To beg for food, to make a hole by digging or cutting; to hollow out ; To cut; to deceive ; 1. To beg. 2. (archaic) To deceive. 3. To cut into pieces ;
bskrus	 verb-past 	skru	Transitive: Voluntary:  To wait (Sch.); to cut ; To beg for food, to make a hole by digging or cutting; to hollow out ; To cut; to deceive ; 1. To beg. 2. (archaic) To deceive. 3. To cut into pieces ;
bskru	 verb-fut 	skru	Transitive: Voluntary:  To wait (Sch.); to cut ; To beg for food, to make a hole by digging or cutting; to hollow out ; To cut; to deceive ; 1. To beg. 2. (archaic) To deceive. 3. To cut into pieces ;
skrud	 verb-pres 	skrud	   To make another run away by devices;
	 verb-past 	skrud	   To make another run away by devices;
	 verb-fut 	skrud	   To make another run away by devices;
skrun	 verb-pres 	skrun	Transitive: Voluntary:  To produce ; To establish, to build; to make ; 1. To print a book. 2. To make, produce ; To make, construct, build, invent, produce ;
bskrun(d)	 verb-past 	skrun	Transitive: Voluntary:  To produce ; To establish, to build; to make ; 1. To print a book. 2. To make, produce ; To make, construct, build, invent, produce ;
bskrun	 verb-fut 	skrun	Transitive: Voluntary:  To produce ; To establish, to build; to make ; 1. To print a book. 2. To make, produce ; To make, construct, build, invent, produce ;
skres	 verb-pres 	skres	   To mix ; Compare   sre
	 verb-past 	skres	   To mix ; Compare   sre
	 verb-fut 	skres	   To mix ; Compare   sre
skrog	 verb-pres 	skrog	Transitive: Voluntary:  To beat (the drum); to churn; to stir (with a rod) ; Another way to preste ; 1. To churn, stir. 2. To beat a drum ;
bskrogs	 verb-past 	skrog	Transitive: Voluntary:  To beat (the drum); to churn; to stir (with a rod) ; Another way to preste ; 1. To churn, stir. 2. To beat a drum ;
bskrog	 verb-fut 	skrog	Transitive: Voluntary:  To beat (the drum); to churn; to stir (with a rod) ; Another way to preste ; 1. To churn, stir. 2. To beat a drum ;
skrog	 verb-pres 	skrog	   To rouse, to scare up ; Root given as s-k-rog < s-'-rog < s-rog ? (Chang 1971: iv.10).
	 verb-past 	skrog	   To rouse, to scare up ; Root given as s-k-rog < s-'-rog < s-rog ? (Chang 1971: iv.10).
	 verb-fut 	skrog	   To rouse, to scare up ; Root given as s-k-rog < s-'-rog < s-rog ? (Chang 1971: iv.10).
skrod	 verb-pres 	skrod	Transitive: Voluntary:  To expel, drive out, eject ; To drive away from a previous location ; To expel, banish, drive out ;
bskrad	 verb-past 	skrod	Transitive: Voluntary:  To expel, drive out, eject ; To drive away from a previous location ; To expel, banish, drive out ;
bskrad	 verb-fut 	skrod	Transitive: Voluntary:  To expel, drive out, eject ; To drive away from a previous location ; To expel, banish, drive out ;
skrob	 verb-pres 	skrob	  
bskrabs	 verb-past 	skrob	  
bskrab	 verb-fut 	skrob	  
skrol	 verb-pres 	skrol	   To cause to make sound; to cause to stir up ;
bskrol(d)	 verb-past 	skrol	   To cause to make sound; to cause to stir up ;
bskrol	 verb-fut 	skrol	   To cause to make sound; to cause to stir up ;
bskal	 verb-pres 	bskal	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be cut off by a long distance or period of time ; To be separated, cut off ; Undoubtedly a generalization of the past of skel(d)
bskal	 verb-past 	bskal	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be cut off by a long distance or period of time ; To be separated, cut off ; Undoubtedly a generalization of the past of skel(d)
bskal	 verb-fut 	bskal	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be cut off by a long distance or period of time ; To be separated, cut off ; Undoubtedly a generalization of the past of skel(d)
	 verb-pres 		   To get caught, hung up (on a peg) ; Hypothesized by Chang on colloquial data, see rkon
	 verb-past 		   To get caught, hung up (on a peg) ; Hypothesized by Chang on colloquial data, see rkon
	 verb-fut 		   To get caught, hung up (on a peg) ; Hypothesized by Chang on colloquial data, see rkon
khug	 verb-pres 	khug	Transitive:  Involuntary   To find, get, earn, draw ;To calm down; to bend down; to fall asleep; to valued; to be worth;To be the price of (something); 1. To turn into, to change, to become. 2. To get, to make, to find ;
khug	 verb-past 	khug	Transitive:  Involuntary   To find, get, earn, draw ;To calm down; to bend down; to fall asleep; to valued; to be worth;To be the price of (something); 1. To turn into, to change, to become. 2. To get, to make, to find ;
'khug	 verb-fut 	khug	Transitive:  Involuntary   To find, get, earn, draw ;To calm down; to bend down; to fall asleep; to valued; to be worth;To be the price of (something); 1. To turn into, to change, to become. 2. To get, to make, to find ;
khegs	 verb-pres 	khegs	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To obstruct, to close ; For something to be unable to move because something else is stuffed inside (a pipe, hole &c.) ; To be obstructed, to stop, to come to halt ;
khegs	 verb-past 	khegs	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To obstruct, to close ; For something to be unable to move because something else is stuffed inside (a pipe, hole &c.) ; To be obstructed, to stop, to come to halt ;
khegs	 verb-fut 	khegs	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To obstruct, to close ; For something to be unable to move because something else is stuffed inside (a pipe, hole &c.) ; To be obstructed, to stop, to come to halt ;
'kheng	 verb-pres 	kheng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be replete, to be full ; To be full ; To fill up the inside ; To be full ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Tournadre &  Dorje 2003)"]}
khengs	 verb-past 	kheng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be replete, to be full ; To be full ; To fill up the inside ; To be full ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Tournadre &  Dorje 2003)"]}
khengs	 verb-fut 	kheng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be replete, to be full ; To be full ; To fill up the inside ; To be full ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Tournadre &  Dorje 2003)"]}
khen	 verb-pres 	khen	Intransitive:    To lean, to repose on. (erroneously for ; To rest, rely on in order not to collapse ; (dialect) To lean, to rest against ;
khen	 verb-past 	khen	Intransitive:    To lean, to repose on. (erroneously for ; To rest, rely on in order not to collapse ; (dialect) To lean, to rest against ;
khen	 verb-fut 	khen	Intransitive:    To lean, to repose on. (erroneously for ; To rest, rely on in order not to collapse ; (dialect) To lean, to rest against ;
'khebs	 verb-pres 	khebs	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To cover; to spread over ; To cover up; to spread over ; To be able to cover, be able to arrange ; To be covered ;
kheb	 verb-past 	khebs	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To cover; to spread over ; To cover up; to spread over ; To be able to cover, be able to arrange ; To be covered ;
'kheb	 verb-fut 	khebs	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To cover; to spread over ; To cover up; to spread over ; To be able to cover, be able to arrange ; To be covered ;
kher	 verb-pres 	kher	Intransitive:    To make vertical, to extend ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS"]}
kher	 verb-past 	kher	Intransitive:    To make vertical, to extend ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS"]}
kher	 verb-fut 	kher	Intransitive:    To make vertical, to extend ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS"]}
khog	 verb-pres 	khog	   To be taken out ;
	 verb-past 	khog	   To be taken out ;
	 verb-fut 	khog	   To be taken out ;
khom	 verb-pres 	khom	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. to have leisure, time to do a thing. 2. to be enabled to do a thing by the absence of external impediments (Schtr.) ; To have time; to be free; to be free from the worldly activities ; To not have leisure, time ; To have time for something ;
khom	 verb-past 	khom	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. to have leisure, time to do a thing. 2. to be enabled to do a thing by the absence of external impediments (Schtr.) ; To have time; to be free; to be free from the worldly activities ; To not have leisure, time ; To have time for something ;
'khom	 verb-fut 	khom	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. to have leisure, time to do a thing. 2. to be enabled to do a thing by the absence of external impediments (Schtr.) ; To have time; to be free; to be free from the worldly activities ; To not have leisure, time ; To have time for something ;
khyag	 verb-pres 	khyag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To undertake, to be surety for [sic] ; To float on water; to become mentally unsettled or unsteady ; To endure hardship, to be able to hold up ; To endure, to be able to lift or hold up something ;
khyags	 verb-past 	khyag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To undertake, to be surety for [sic] ; To float on water; to become mentally unsettled or unsteady ; To endure hardship, to be able to hold up ; To endure, to be able to lift or hold up something ;
khyag	 verb-fut 	khyag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To undertake, to be surety for [sic] ; To float on water; to become mentally unsettled or unsteady ; To endure hardship, to be able to hold up ; To endure, to be able to lift or hold up something ;
khyab	 verb-pres 	khyab	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fill, penetrate, embrace; estimate, comprise ; To cover up, to spread over ; To spread, cover ; To cover, to pervade, to include, to spread ;
khyab	 verb-past 	khyab	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fill, penetrate, embrace; estimate, comprise ; To cover up, to spread over ; To spread, cover ; To cover, to pervade, to include, to spread ;
khyab	 verb-fut 	khyab	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fill, penetrate, embrace; estimate, comprise ; To cover up, to spread over ; To spread, cover ; To cover, to pervade, to include, to spread ;
khyog	 verb-pres 	khyog	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be sustainable, to be borne, to be bearable; Compare 'khyog
khyog	 verb-past 	khyog	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be sustainable, to be borne, to be bearable; Compare 'khyog
khyog	 verb-fut 	khyog	Intransitive: Involuntary:  To be sustainable, to be borne, to be bearable; Compare 'khyog
khrul	 verb-pres 	khrul	Intransitive:    To let fall; to drop (several things at intervals) ; To fall, drop individually ;
khrul	 verb-past 	khrul	Intransitive:    To let fall; to drop (several things at intervals) ; To fall, drop individually ;
khrul	 verb-fut 	khrul	Intransitive:    To let fall; to drop (several things at intervals) ; To fall, drop individually ;
khrems	 verb-pres 	khrems	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To water gardens and cultivation; to sprinkle water ; To be absorbed ;
khrems	 verb-past 	khrems	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To water gardens and cultivation; to sprinkle water ; To be absorbed ;
khrems	 verb-fut 	khrems	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To water gardens and cultivation; to sprinkle water ; To be absorbed ;
khrel	 verb-pres 	khrel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be ashamed; to provoke shame ; To loose hope, to no longer desire ; To be embarrassed (by the reproach of another), to be considerate ;
khrel	 verb-past 	khrel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be ashamed; to provoke shame ; To loose hope, to no longer desire ; To be embarrassed (by the reproach of another), to be considerate ;
khrel	 verb-fut 	khrel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be ashamed; to provoke shame ; To loose hope, to no longer desire ; To be embarrassed (by the reproach of another), to be considerate ;
khro	 verb-pres 	khro	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be angry ; To get angry; to be filled with anger; to be indignant ; To be angry, aggressive ; To go angry, to become angry ;
khros	 verb-past 	khro	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be angry ; To get angry; to be filled with anger; to be indignant ; To be angry, aggressive ; To go angry, to become angry ;
khro	 verb-fut 	khro	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be angry ; To get angry; to be filled with anger; to be indignant ; To be angry, aggressive ; To go angry, to become angry ;
mkhas	 verb-pres 	mkhas	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To become wise; to become a scholar; cause to be learned ; To be able, skilled, to have compassion ; To be learned ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["KYN"]}
mkhas	 verb-past 	mkhas	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To become wise; to become a scholar; cause to be learned ; To be able, skilled, to have compassion ; To be learned ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["KYN"]}
mkhas	 verb-fut 	mkhas	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To become wise; to become a scholar; cause to be learned ; To be able, skilled, to have compassion ; To be learned ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["KYN"]}
mkho	 verb-pres 	mkho	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To want ; To necessitate; to become necessary; to be in need ; To want, to need ;
mkho	 verb-past 	mkho	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To want ; To necessitate; to become necessary; to be in need ; To want, to need ;
mkho	 verb-fut 	mkho	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To want ; To necessitate; to become necessary; to be in need ; To want, to need ;
mkhyud	 verb-pres 	mkhyud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To keep, to hold, to retain ; To be secretive, to conceal one's knowledge with ill intention ; (archaic) To hide (small religious instructions &c.) ;  To conceal, to hide ;
mkhyud	 verb-past 	mkhyud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To keep, to hold, to retain ; To be secretive, to conceal one's knowledge with ill intention ; (archaic) To hide (small religious instructions &c.) ;  To conceal, to hide ;
mkhyud	 verb-fut 	mkhyud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To keep, to hold, to retain ; To be secretive, to conceal one's knowledge with ill intention ; (archaic) To hide (small religious instructions &c.) ;  To conceal, to hide ;
mkhyen(d)	 verb-pres 	mkhyen	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To know ; To know, to understand; to comprehend ; To know, understand, examine ; (honorific) To know, to comprehend ; Root given as mkhyen < *mkhyan < mkhan (Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15).
mkhyen(d)	 verb-past 	mkhyen	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To know ; To know, to understand; to comprehend ; To know, understand, examine ; (honorific) To know, to comprehend ; Root given as mkhyen < *mkhyan < mkhan (Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15).
mkhyen	 verb-fut 	mkhyen	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To know ; To know, to understand; to comprehend ; To know, understand, examine ; (honorific) To know, to comprehend ; Root given as mkhyen < *mkhyan < mkhan (Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15).
mkhrang	 verb-pres 	mkhrang	 Involuntary:   Hard, solid, compact (Jä) ;
mkhrangs	 verb-past 	mkhrang	 Involuntary:   Hard, solid, compact (Jä) ;
mkhrang	 verb-fut 	mkhrang	 Involuntary:   Hard, solid, compact (Jä) ;
mkhreg	 verb-pres 	mkhreg	 Involuntary:   Hard, firm (Jä) ;
mkhregs	 verb-past 	mkhreg	 Involuntary:   Hard, firm (Jä) ;
mkhreg	 verb-fut 	mkhreg	 Involuntary:   Hard, firm (Jä) ;
mkhren	 verb-pres 	mkhren	 Involuntary:  
mkhren(d)	 verb-past 	mkhren	 Involuntary:  
mkhren	 verb-fut 	mkhren	 Involuntary:  
'khang	 verb-pres 	'khang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To hurt at heart or offend, also to irritate ; To be unsatisfied, to be discontented or hateful ;To believe, to not be happy ; To be resentful, to be spiteful, to bear ill will  ;To recriminate, complain, resist ;
'khang	 verb-past 	'khang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To hurt at heart or offend, also to irritate ; To be unsatisfied, to be discontented or hateful ;To believe, to not be happy ; To be resentful, to be spiteful, to bear ill will  ;To recriminate, complain, resist ;
'khang	 verb-fut 	'khang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To hurt at heart or offend, also to irritate ; To be unsatisfied, to be discontented or hateful ;To believe, to not be happy ; To be resentful, to be spiteful, to bear ill will  ;To recriminate, complain, resist ;
'kham	 verb-pres 	'kham	Intransitive: Involuntary:   1. To sink or fall down senseless; to faint away; to swoon. 2. To take into one's mouth (Sch.) ; To faint, to become unconscious ;
'khams	 verb-past 	'kham	Intransitive: Involuntary:   1. To sink or fall down senseless; to faint away; to swoon. 2. To take into one's mouth (Sch.) ; To faint, to become unconscious ;
'kham	 verb-fut 	'kham	Intransitive: Involuntary:   1. To sink or fall down senseless; to faint away; to swoon. 2. To take into one's mouth (Sch.) ; To faint, to become unconscious ;
'khar	 verb-pres 	'khar	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To adhere, to stick to ; To long for; to crave for, to be greedy; to be impeded ;To adhere to, to stick to, to be caught on ;
'khar(d)	 verb-past 	'khar	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To adhere, to stick to ; To long for; to crave for, to be greedy; to be impeded ;To adhere to, to stick to, to be caught on ;
'khar	 verb-fut 	'khar	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To adhere, to stick to ; To long for; to crave for, to be greedy; to be impeded ;To adhere to, to stick to, to be caught on ;
'khal	 verb-pres 	'khal	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To spin. 2. (in West) To send; to forward things ; To spin yard; to make thread ; To spin wool, cotton, silk &c. into thread ; To spin ; Compare 'khel
bkal(d)	 verb-past 	'khal	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To spin. 2. (in West) To send; to forward things ; To spin yard; to make thread ; To spin wool, cotton, silk &c. into thread ; To spin ; Compare 'khel
bkal	 verb-fut 	'khal	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To spin. 2. (in West) To send; to forward things ; To spin yard; to make thread ; To spin wool, cotton, silk &c. into thread ; To spin ; Compare 'khel
'khu	 verb-pres 	'khu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To offend, to vie with, contend (Jä) ; To be unsatisfied; to hate ; To bear thoughts of harm ; 1. To contend with, to vie with, to harm. 2. (archaic) To oppose ; To oppose, rebel ; Perhaps to be linked with dku
'khus	 verb-past 	'khu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To offend, to vie with, contend (Jä) ; To be unsatisfied; to hate ; To bear thoughts of harm ; 1. To contend with, to vie with, to harm. 2. (archaic) To oppose ; To oppose, rebel ; Perhaps to be linked with dku
'khu	 verb-fut 	'khu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To offend, to vie with, contend (Jä) ; To be unsatisfied; to hate ; To bear thoughts of harm ; 1. To contend with, to vie with, to harm. 2. (archaic) To oppose ; To oppose, rebel ; Perhaps to be linked with dku
'khun	 verb-pres 	'khun	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To pant, to whisper ; For a sound to come from the throat because of illness ; 1. To groan, to moan. 2. To be breathless. 3. To make a guttural sound like the cawing of a pigeon ;
'khun(d)	 verb-past 	'khun	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To pant, to whisper ; For a sound to come from the throat because of illness ; 1. To groan, to moan. 2. To be breathless. 3. To make a guttural sound like the cawing of a pigeon ;
'khun	 verb-fut 	'khun	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To pant, to whisper ; For a sound to come from the throat because of illness ; 1. To groan, to moan. 2. To be breathless. 3. To make a guttural sound like the cawing of a pigeon ;
'khum	 verb-pres 	'khum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To shrink ; To contract, shrink; to be afraid of, to recoil ; 1. To shrink in size. 2. To measure, be miserly ; To shrink, contract ;
khums	 verb-past 	'khum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To shrink ; To contract, shrink; to be afraid of, to recoil ; 1. To shrink in size. 2. To measure, be miserly ; To shrink, contract ;
'khum	 verb-fut 	'khum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To shrink ; To contract, shrink; to be afraid of, to recoil ; 1. To shrink in size. 2. To measure, be miserly ; To shrink, contract ;
'khums	 verb-pres 	'khums	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To comprehend ; To comprehend, to hear ; To know, to have an idea of ;
'khums	 verb-past 	'khums	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To comprehend ; To comprehend, to hear ; To know, to have an idea of ;
'khums	 verb-fut 	'khums	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To comprehend ; To comprehend, to hear ; To know, to have an idea of ;
'khur	 verb-pres 	'khur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To carry; to fetch; in convey ; To carry ; To carry placed on a person's back or shoulders ; To carry, to shoulder, to bear ;
khur(d)	 verb-past 	'khur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To carry; to fetch; in convey ; To carry ; To carry placed on a person's back or shoulders ; To carry, to shoulder, to bear ;
khur	 verb-fut 	'khur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To carry; to fetch; in convey ; To carry ; To carry placed on a person's back or shoulders ; To carry, to shoulder, to bear ;
'khul	 verb-pres 	'khul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To subdue, to subject (Nag) (Cs.). 2.  To be uneasy about ; To subdue, to force  ;
'khul(d)	 verb-past 	'khul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To subdue, to subject (Nag) (Cs.). 2.  To be uneasy about ; To subdue, to force  ;
'khul	 verb-fut 	'khul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To subdue, to subject (Nag) (Cs.). 2.  To be uneasy about ; To subdue, to force  ;
'khus	 verb-pres 	'khus	   To extract juice from; to take out juice ; (archaic) To conceal ;
bkus	 verb-past 	'khus	   To extract juice from; to take out juice ; (archaic) To conceal ;
bku	 verb-fut 	'khus	   To extract juice from; to take out juice ; (archaic) To conceal ;
'kheng	 verb-pres 	'kheng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be frozen, to be congealed ;
'khengs	 verb-past 	'kheng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be frozen, to be congealed ;
'kheng	 verb-fut 	'kheng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be frozen, to be congealed ;
'khel	 verb-pres 	'khel	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To put on, to pack on, to load ; 1. To load upon; = ; To be decided, to be confirmed; to strike, hit; to be on the way ; 1. To strike (e.g. a target with arrow). 2. To decide on the meaning of a belief ; 1. To be determined.  2. To make contact, to encounter, to coïncide with, to endure. 3. To trust ;
bkal(d)	 verb-past 	'khel	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To put on, to pack on, to load ; 1. To load upon; = ; To be decided, to be confirmed; to strike, hit; to be on the way ; 1. To strike (e.g. a target with arrow). 2. To decide on the meaning of a belief ; 1. To be determined.  2. To make contact, to encounter, to coïncide with, to endure. 3. To trust ;
bkal	 verb-fut 	'khel	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To put on, to pack on, to load ; 1. To load upon; = ; To be decided, to be confirmed; to strike, hit; to be on the way ; 1. To strike (e.g. a target with arrow). 2. To decide on the meaning of a belief ; 1. To be determined.  2. To make contact, to encounter, to coïncide with, to endure. 3. To trust ;
'kho	 verb-pres 	'kho	   To wish, to want, to think useful, serviceable, necessary (Jä) ; Compare khos pa
'khos	 verb-past 	'kho	   To wish, to want, to think useful, serviceable, necessary (Jä) ; Compare khos pa
dgos	 verb-fut 	'kho	   To wish, to want, to think useful, serviceable, necessary (Jä) ; Compare khos pa
'khong	 verb-pres 	'khong	Intransitive:    To draw in one's limbs; to sit in a cowering position, to squat; to hide one's self ; 1. To be unsatisfiedly unhappy. 2. To remain with the body's limbs contracted. 3. (;(archaic) To be disheartened ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}
'khong	 verb-past 	'khong	Intransitive:    To draw in one's limbs; to sit in a cowering position, to squat; to hide one's self ; 1. To be unsatisfiedly unhappy. 2. To remain with the body's limbs contracted. 3. (;(archaic) To be disheartened ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}
'khong	 verb-fut 	'khong	Intransitive:    To draw in one's limbs; to sit in a cowering position, to squat; to hide one's self ; 1. To be unsatisfiedly unhappy. 2. To remain with the body's limbs contracted. 3. (;(archaic) To be disheartened ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}
'khod	 verb-pres 	'khod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To sit, to dwell, to live; to be set down ; To be registered; to sit down on a throne; to be enthroned; to become a leader; to be in line ;To stay in one's place ;1. To be placed, to be present, to be situated. 2. To be established, to be set down, to be recorded, to be labeled ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Uray 1972: 19) ."]}
'khod	 verb-past 	'khod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To sit, to dwell, to live; to be set down ; To be registered; to sit down on a throne; to be enthroned; to become a leader; to be in line ;To stay in one's place ;1. To be placed, to be present, to be situated. 2. To be established, to be set down, to be recorded, to be labeled ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Uray 1972: 19) ."]}
'khod	 verb-fut 	'khod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To sit, to dwell, to live; to be set down ; To be registered; to sit down on a throne; to be enthroned; to become a leader; to be in line ;To stay in one's place ;1. To be placed, to be present, to be situated. 2. To be established, to be set down, to be recorded, to be labeled ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Uray 1972: 19) ."]}
bkon	 verb-pres 	'khon	Transitive: Voluntary:   To create enmity; to disturb a friendly relation or to cause disunion ; To threaten, menace ; (archaic) To bear a grudge, to harbor revenge ;
bkon(d)	 verb-past 	'khon	Transitive: Voluntary:   To create enmity; to disturb a friendly relation or to cause disunion ; To threaten, menace ; (archaic) To bear a grudge, to harbor revenge ;
bkon	 verb-fut 	'khon	Transitive: Voluntary:   To create enmity; to disturb a friendly relation or to cause disunion ; To threaten, menace ; (archaic) To bear a grudge, to harbor revenge ;
'khon	 verb-pres 	'khon	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bear a grudge or ill will against a person; to be dissatisfied with a thing; to be malicious, spiteful ; To be revengeful, spiteful, hateful ;1. To bear enmity, hostility. 2. To be impeded, to be obstructed ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Chang 1971: vii.16) ."]}
khon(d)	 verb-past 	'khon	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bear a grudge or ill will against a person; to be dissatisfied with a thing; to be malicious, spiteful ; To be revengeful, spiteful, hateful ;1. To bear enmity, hostility. 2. To be impeded, to be obstructed ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Chang 1971: vii.16) ."]}
'khon	 verb-fut 	'khon	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bear a grudge or ill will against a person; to be dissatisfied with a thing; to be malicious, spiteful ; To be revengeful, spiteful, hateful ;1. To bear enmity, hostility. 2. To be impeded, to be obstructed ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Chang 1971: vii.16) ."]}
'khobs	 verb-pres 	'khob	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be startled, agitated, alarmed (Jä) ; To be stiff due to cold ; To be stiff, rigid ;
'khobs	 verb-past 	'khob	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be startled, agitated, alarmed (Jä) ; To be stiff due to cold ; To be stiff, rigid ;
'khob	 verb-fut 	'khob	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be startled, agitated, alarmed (Jä) ; To be stiff due to cold ; To be stiff, rigid ;
'khor(d)	 verb-pres 	'khor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To turn round, circumambulate. 2. To be formed, perfected. ; To rotate or turn round ; 1. To turn at a hub. 2. To change direction. 3. To come, to gather ; To revolve, to rotate, to spin, to go around, to elapse (of time) ; Compare the noun sgor mo
'khor(d)	 verb-past 	'khor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To turn round, circumambulate. 2. To be formed, perfected. ; To rotate or turn round ; 1. To turn at a hub. 2. To change direction. 3. To come, to gather ; To revolve, to rotate, to spin, to go around, to elapse (of time) ; Compare the noun sgor mo
'khor	 verb-fut 	'khor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To turn round, circumambulate. 2. To be formed, perfected. ; To rotate or turn round ; 1. To turn at a hub. 2. To change direction. 3. To come, to gather ; To revolve, to rotate, to spin, to go around, to elapse (of time) ; Compare the noun sgor mo
'khol	 verb-pres 	'khol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (in Medicine) To boil ; 1. To be boiling. 2. To feel anxiety or to be agitated. 3. To be active in service, to be an obedient servant ; For bubbles to arise from within a liquid which has arrived at a certain temperature ; To boil, be boiled ;
khol	 verb-past 	'khol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (in Medicine) To boil ; 1. To be boiling. 2. To feel anxiety or to be agitated. 3. To be active in service, to be an obedient servant ; For bubbles to arise from within a liquid which has arrived at a certain temperature ; To boil, be boiled ;
'khol	 verb-fut 	'khol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (in Medicine) To boil ; 1. To be boiling. 2. To feel anxiety or to be agitated. 3. To be active in service, to be an obedient servant ; For bubbles to arise from within a liquid which has arrived at a certain temperature ; To boil, be boiled ;
'khol	 verb-pres 	'khol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To make a person a slave; to bind as a servant, to cause to serve one. 2. To become insensible, to be asleep; to get benumbed in reference to the limbs (Sch.) ; To use as a servant; to make somebody serve; to use ; To use ; To take into service, to assign someone, to use ;
bkol(d)	 verb-past 	'khol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To make a person a slave; to bind as a servant, to cause to serve one. 2. To become insensible, to be asleep; to get benumbed in reference to the limbs (Sch.) ; To use as a servant; to make somebody serve; to use ; To use ; To take into service, to assign someone, to use ;
bkol	 verb-fut 	'khol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To make a person a slave; to bind as a servant, to cause to serve one. 2. To become insensible, to be asleep; to get benumbed in reference to the limbs (Sch.) ; To use as a servant; to make somebody serve; to use ; To use ; To take into service, to assign someone, to use ;
bkol	 verb-pres 	'khol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To save; to spare; to enjoy with moderation (Cs.) ; To isolate, to keep separately ; To separate apart, put aside ; To select, set aside, single out, separate ;
bkol(d)	 verb-past 	'khol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To save; to spare; to enjoy with moderation (Cs.) ; To isolate, to keep separately ; To separate apart, put aside ; To select, set aside, single out, separate ;
bkol	 verb-fut 	'khol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To save; to spare; to enjoy with moderation (Cs.) ; To isolate, to keep separately ; To separate apart, put aside ; To select, set aside, single out, separate ;
'khyag	 verb-pres 	'khyag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To freeze, coagulate, feel cold ; To freeze or become very cold, to be chilled ;To cool ;To be cold, to freeze;
'khyags	 verb-past 	'khyag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To freeze, coagulate, feel cold ; To freeze or become very cold, to be chilled ;To cool ;To be cold, to freeze;
'khyag	 verb-fut 	'khyag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To freeze, coagulate, feel cold ; To freeze or become very cold, to be chilled ;To cool ;To be cold, to freeze;
'khyam	 verb-pres 	'khyam	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To rove, to wander ; To wander; to ramble ;To go here and there without a definite goal;To wander, to roam, to travel aimlessly ;
'khyams	 verb-past 	'khyam	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To rove, to wander ; To wander; to ramble ;To go here and there without a definite goal;To wander, to roam, to travel aimlessly ;
'khyam	 verb-fut 	'khyam	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To rove, to wander ; To wander; to ramble ;To go here and there without a definite goal;To wander, to roam, to travel aimlessly ;
'khyar	 verb-pres 	'khyar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To err, to go astray ; To roam; to wander; to stray ; To let out a secret ; To be dislocated, to stray, to be dispersed, to be missing ; Root given as 'khyar < 'khor 'turn' (?) (Beyer 1992: 83).
'khyar(d)	 verb-past 	'khyar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To err, to go astray ; To roam; to wander; to stray ; To let out a secret ; To be dislocated, to stray, to be dispersed, to be missing ; Root given as 'khyar < 'khor 'turn' (?) (Beyer 1992: 83).
'khyar	 verb-fut 	'khyar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To err, to go astray ; To roam; to wander; to stray ; To let out a secret ; To be dislocated, to stray, to be dispersed, to be missing ; Root given as 'khyar < 'khor 'turn' (?) (Beyer 1992: 83).
'khyal	 verb-pres 	'khyal	   To talk nonsense, to gossip or drivel ;
bkyal(d)	 verb-past 	'khyal	   To talk nonsense, to gossip or drivel ;
bkyal	 verb-fut 	'khyal	   To talk nonsense, to gossip or drivel ;
'khyal(d)	 verb-pres 	'khyal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To gossip; to converse meaninglessly ; 1. For earlier and later words to not be connected, for earlier and later to not be connected. 2. To move away from an earlier position ; To lapse, to lose control, to go astray ; Compare the nouns rkyal ka
khyal	 verb-past 	'khyal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To gossip; to converse meaninglessly ; 1. For earlier and later words to not be connected, for earlier and later to not be connected. 2. To move away from an earlier position ; To lapse, to lose control, to go astray ; Compare the nouns rkyal ka
'khyal	 verb-fut 	'khyal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To gossip; to converse meaninglessly ; 1. For earlier and later words to not be connected, for earlier and later to not be connected. 2. To move away from an earlier position ; To lapse, to lose control, to go astray ; Compare the nouns rkyal ka
'khyig	 verb-pres 	'khyig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bind, to take prisoner; (in Central Tibet) To strangle, suffocate ; To bind; to fasten or tie; to truss up ;To restrain men, livestock &c. with a rope ; To tie, bind ;
bkyigs	 verb-past 	'khyig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bind, to take prisoner; (in Central Tibet) To strangle, suffocate ; To bind; to fasten or tie; to truss up ;To restrain men, livestock &c. with a rope ; To tie, bind ;
bkyig	 verb-fut 	'khyig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bind, to take prisoner; (in Central Tibet) To strangle, suffocate ; To bind; to fasten or tie; to truss up ;To restrain men, livestock &c. with a rope ; To tie, bind ;
'khyig	 verb-pres 	'khyig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To tightly bind ;
'khyigs	 verb-past 	'khyig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To tightly bind ;
'khyig	 verb-fut 	'khyig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To tightly bind ;
'khyigs	 verb-pres 	'khyigs	   To comprise, encompass ;
	 verb-past 	'khyigs	   To comprise, encompass ;
	 verb-fut 	'khyigs	   To comprise, encompass ;
'khyid	 verb-pres 	'khyid	   To turn, roll (one's eyes); to draw out; strain; to roll, revolve ;
	 verb-past 	'khyid	   To turn, roll (one's eyes); to draw out; strain; to roll, revolve ;
	 verb-fut 	'khyid	   To turn, roll (one's eyes); to draw out; strain; to roll, revolve ;
'khyims	 verb-pres 	'khyims	Intransitive:    To be encircled with a halo, like the sun and moon ; To seep out from ; Compare 'gyim pa
'khyims	 verb-past 	'khyims	Intransitive:    To be encircled with a halo, like the sun and moon ; To seep out from ; Compare 'gyim pa
'khyims	 verb-fut 	'khyims	Intransitive:    To be encircled with a halo, like the sun and moon ; To seep out from ; Compare 'gyim pa
'khyir	 verb-pres 	'khyir	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To turn around ; To wind round; to move in a circle; to circle ;To rotate a parasol;To rotate, spin ;
khyir	 verb-past 	'khyir	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To turn around ; To wind round; to move in a circle; to circle ;To rotate a parasol;To rotate, spin ;
'khyir	 verb-fut 	'khyir	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To turn around ; To wind round; to move in a circle; to circle ;To rotate a parasol;To rotate, spin ;
'khyil	 verb-pres 	'khyil	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wind; to twist; to whirl around ; To be collected or to be stored; to accumulate ;1. To be bent like the pattern of a conch shell. 2. For liquids (water &c.) to gather ; 1. To be absorbed. 2. To whirl around, to twist, to coil up, to curl up, to spiral ;
'khyil(d)	 verb-past 	'khyil	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wind; to twist; to whirl around ; To be collected or to be stored; to accumulate ;1. To be bent like the pattern of a conch shell. 2. For liquids (water &c.) to gather ; 1. To be absorbed. 2. To whirl around, to twist, to coil up, to curl up, to spiral ;
'khyil	 verb-fut 	'khyil	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wind; to twist; to whirl around ; To be collected or to be stored; to accumulate ;1. To be bent like the pattern of a conch shell. 2. For liquids (water &c.) to gather ; 1. To be absorbed. 2. To whirl around, to twist, to coil up, to curl up, to spiral ;
'khyug	 verb-pres 	'khyug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To run, move swiftly ; To move swiftly, to flash ; To move swiftly, to flash ;
'khyug	 verb-past 	'khyug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To run, move swiftly ; To move swiftly, to flash ; To move swiftly, to flash ;
'khyug	 verb-fut 	'khyug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To run, move swiftly ; To move swiftly, to flash ; To move swiftly, to flash ;
'khyud	 verb-pres 	'khyud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To embrace. 2. To glide in or into. 3. To be able ; To embrace or hug; to encompass; to coil up; to surround or to encircle; to have great faith or interest in some one or some thing ;1. Tug, to embrace. 2. To engage in sexual intercourse ;
'khyud	 verb-past 	'khyud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To embrace. 2. To glide in or into. 3. To be able ; To embrace or hug; to encompass; to coil up; to surround or to encircle; to have great faith or interest in some one or some thing ;1. Tug, to embrace. 2. To engage in sexual intercourse ;
'khyud	 verb-fut 	'khyud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To embrace. 2. To glide in or into. 3. To be able ; To embrace or hug; to encompass; to coil up; to surround or to encircle; to have great faith or interest in some one or some thing ;1. Tug, to embrace. 2. To engage in sexual intercourse ;
'khyur	 verb-pres 	'khyur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be separated, divorced (Cs.); to stop; to put an end to. 2. To be deserted (Jä) ; To be transferred ;To be transferred, to be assigned ;
khyur	 verb-past 	'khyur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be separated, divorced (Cs.); to stop; to put an end to. 2. To be deserted (Jä) ; To be transferred ;To be transferred, to be assigned ;
'khyur	 verb-fut 	'khyur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be separated, divorced (Cs.); to stop; to put an end to. 2. To be deserted (Jä) ; To be transferred ;To be transferred, to be assigned ;
'khyu	 verb-pres 	'khyus	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To run away ;(an archaic equivalent of ; To run away, to flee ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["ND"]}
'khyus	 verb-past 	'khyus	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To run away ;(an archaic equivalent of ; To run away, to flee ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["ND"]}
'khyu	 verb-fut 	'khyus	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To run away ;(an archaic equivalent of ; To run away, to flee ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["ND"]}
'khyeg	 verb-pres 	'khyeg	  
bkyeg	 verb-past 	'khyeg	  
'gyeg	 verb-fut 	'khyeg	  
'khyed	 verb-pres 	'khyed	   1. To be sufficient, to suffice, to be enough; to hold out. 2. (Central Dialect) To gain (a lawsuit); to be acquitted (Jä) ;
khyed	 verb-past 	'khyed	   1. To be sufficient, to suffice, to be enough; to hold out. 2. (Central Dialect) To gain (a lawsuit); to be acquitted (Jä) ;
	 verb-fut 	'khyed	   1. To be sufficient, to suffice, to be enough; to hold out. 2. (Central Dialect) To gain (a lawsuit); to be acquitted (Jä) ;
'khyer	 verb-pres 	'khyer	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To carry away, to take away ; To carry, to take away, to bring ;To carry, to take away;
khyer(d)	 verb-past 	'khyer	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To carry away, to take away ; To carry, to take away, to bring ;To carry, to take away;
khyer	 verb-fut 	'khyer	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To carry away, to take away ; To carry, to take away, to bring ;To carry, to take away;
'khyel	 verb-pres 	'khyel	   (in Ladakh) To hit, to strike ;
	 verb-past 	'khyel	   (in Ladakh) To hit, to strike ;
	 verb-fut 	'khyel	   (in Ladakh) To hit, to strike ;
'khyog	 verb-pres 	'khyog	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To lift; lift up. 2. To carry, to bring ; To be crooked; to become crooked, to twist ;To be bent, to be crooked, to sway, to curve ;
khyog	 verb-past 	'khyog	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To lift; lift up. 2. To carry, to bring ; To be crooked; to become crooked, to twist ;To be bent, to be crooked, to sway, to curve ;
'khyog	 verb-fut 	'khyog	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To lift; lift up. 2. To carry, to bring ; To be crooked; to become crooked, to twist ;To be bent, to be crooked, to sway, to curve ;
'khyong	 verb-pres 	'khyong	Transitive:  Involuntary:   1. To observe. 2. (in Ladakh) To bring (Jä), (Ramsay) ; 1. To continue without interruption. 2. To arrive at a good or complete [state]. 3. To be able. 4. To enunciate, use good diction ; To continue, to conclude ;
'khyongs	 verb-past 	'khyong	Transitive:  Involuntary:   1. To observe. 2. (in Ladakh) To bring (Jä), (Ramsay) ; 1. To continue without interruption. 2. To arrive at a good or complete [state]. 3. To be able. 4. To enunciate, use good diction ; To continue, to conclude ;
'khyong	 verb-fut 	'khyong	Transitive:  Involuntary:   1. To observe. 2. (in Ladakh) To bring (Jä), (Ramsay) ; 1. To continue without interruption. 2. To arrive at a good or complete [state]. 3. To be able. 4. To enunciate, use good diction ; To continue, to conclude ;
'khyom	 verb-pres 	'khyom	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (in Central Tibet) To reel, stagger ; To be aroused, to be agitated, to be disturbed. 2. To sway, to roll, to rock ;
'khyoms	 verb-past 	'khyom	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (in Central Tibet) To reel, stagger ; To be aroused, to be agitated, to be disturbed. 2. To sway, to roll, to rock ;
'khyom	 verb-fut 	'khyom	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (in Central Tibet) To reel, stagger ; To be aroused, to be agitated, to be disturbed. 2. To sway, to roll, to rock ;
'khyor	 verb-pres 	'khyor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be unsteady; to miss, fail, not to hit (Cs.); to reel, stager from intoxication ; To be unsteady, to stagger, to totter ; Root given as 'khyor < 'khor 'turn' (Beyer 1992: 83).
'khyor	 verb-past 	'khyor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be unsteady; to miss, fail, not to hit (Cs.); to reel, stager from intoxication ; To be unsteady, to stagger, to totter ; Root given as 'khyor < 'khor 'turn' (Beyer 1992: 83).
'khyor	 verb-fut 	'khyor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be unsteady; to miss, fail, not to hit (Cs.); to reel, stager from intoxication ; To be unsteady, to stagger, to totter ; Root given as 'khyor < 'khor 'turn' (Beyer 1992: 83).
'khyol	 verb-pres 	'khyol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be carried, to be bought ; To reach one's destination; to complete one's life ; To be concluded, to be finished, to reach a goal ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
'khyol(d)	 verb-past 	'khyol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be carried, to be bought ; To reach one's destination; to complete one's life ; To be concluded, to be finished, to reach a goal ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
'khyol	 verb-fut 	'khyol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be carried, to be bought ; To reach one's destination; to complete one's life ; To be concluded, to be finished, to reach a goal ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
'khra	 verb-pres 	'khra	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To lean to; to incline toward (Cs.) ; To crave for; to be impeded ; (archaic) To be attached, to stay in one place, to depend on ;
'khras	 verb-past 	'khra	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To lean to; to incline toward (Cs.) ; To crave for; to be impeded ; (archaic) To be attached, to stay in one place, to depend on ;
'khra	 verb-fut 	'khra	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To lean to; to incline toward (Cs.) ; To crave for; to be impeded ; (archaic) To be attached, to stay in one place, to depend on ;
'khrab	 verb-pres 	'khrab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To strike; to beat (in regular, strokes as in swimming and rowing). 2. To winnow, to fan. 3. To blink, twinkle, wink with the eyes. 4. To jest, joke. 5. To leap, jump. 6. To scoop out; to bail out ; To select; to move legs, eyes etc. to dance ;To thresh or winnow chaff from grain with a flail or fan ;
bkrab	 verb-past 	'khrab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To strike; to beat (in regular, strokes as in swimming and rowing). 2. To winnow, to fan. 3. To blink, twinkle, wink with the eyes. 4. To jest, joke. 5. To leap, jump. 6. To scoop out; to bail out ; To select; to move legs, eyes etc. to dance ;To thresh or winnow chaff from grain with a flail or fan ;
bkrab	 verb-fut 	'khrab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To strike; to beat (in regular, strokes as in swimming and rowing). 2. To winnow, to fan. 3. To blink, twinkle, wink with the eyes. 4. To jest, joke. 5. To leap, jump. 6. To scoop out; to bail out ; To select; to move legs, eyes etc. to dance ;To thresh or winnow chaff from grain with a flail or fan ;
'khrab	 verb-pres 	'khrab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To dance ;To perform, to stage, to beat, to stamp ;
'khrabs	 verb-past 	'khrab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To dance ;To perform, to stage, to beat, to stamp ;
'khrab	 verb-fut 	'khrab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To dance ;To perform, to stage, to beat, to stamp ;
'khri	 verb-pres 	'khri	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wind, compress; entangle, hold fast ; To be responsible, to be tied down by responsibilities ;
'khris	 verb-past 	'khri	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wind, compress; entangle, hold fast ; To be responsible, to be tied down by responsibilities ;
'khri	 verb-fut 	'khri	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wind, compress; entangle, hold fast ; To be responsible, to be tied down by responsibilities ;
'khrig	 verb-pres 	'khrig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To cohere; to stick together, become thick ; To become overcast, to be piled up ; To thicken, to become dense, to gather ;
'khrigs	 verb-past 	'khrig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To cohere; to stick together, become thick ; To become overcast, to be piled up ; To thicken, to become dense, to gather ;
'khrig	 verb-fut 	'khrig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To cohere; to stick together, become thick ; To become overcast, to be piled up ; To thicken, to become dense, to gather ;
bkri	 verb-pres 	'khrid	Transitive: Voluntary:   To lead; to conduct; bring to a place, especially used with in connection with animals and children, also of leading an army ; To draw, to try, to acquire, to search for ;To lead; to bring to a place; to take; to guide from the worldly misery ; 1. To lead on a path. 2. To teach, instruct. 3. To lead, turn someone to go in a particular direction ;To guide, lead ;
bkris	 verb-past 	'khrid	Transitive: Voluntary:   To lead; to conduct; bring to a place, especially used with in connection with animals and children, also of leading an army ; To draw, to try, to acquire, to search for ;To lead; to bring to a place; to take; to guide from the worldly misery ; 1. To lead on a path. 2. To teach, instruct. 3. To lead, turn someone to go in a particular direction ;To guide, lead ;
bkri	 verb-fut 	'khrid	Transitive: Voluntary:   To lead; to conduct; bring to a place, especially used with in connection with animals and children, also of leading an army ; To draw, to try, to acquire, to search for ;To lead; to bring to a place; to take; to guide from the worldly misery ; 1. To lead on a path. 2. To teach, instruct. 3. To lead, turn someone to go in a particular direction ;To guide, lead ;
'khrid	 verb-pres 	'khrid	Transitive:  Voluntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To explain a book; to teach in detail ;1. To lead on a path. 2. To teach, instruct. 3. To lead, turn someone to go in a particular direction ; 1. To lead, to draw, to take, to guide, to bring, to conduct. 2. To instruct, to teach ;
khrid	 verb-past 	'khrid	Transitive:  Voluntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To explain a book; to teach in detail ;1. To lead on a path. 2. To teach, instruct. 3. To lead, turn someone to go in a particular direction ; 1. To lead, to draw, to take, to guide, to bring, to conduct. 2. To instruct, to teach ;
khrid	 verb-fut 	'khrid	Transitive:  Voluntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To explain a book; to teach in detail ;1. To lead on a path. 2. To teach, instruct. 3. To lead, turn someone to go in a particular direction ; 1. To lead, to draw, to take, to guide, to bring, to conduct. 2. To instruct, to teach ;
'khrims	 verb-pres 	'khrims	Intransitive:    To be cowardly, terror having arisen ;
'khrims	 verb-past 	'khrims	Intransitive:    To be cowardly, terror having arisen ;
'khrims	 verb-fut 	'khrims	Intransitive:    To be cowardly, terror having arisen ;
'khril	 verb-pres 	'khril	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wind, coil round, to clasp round ; To embrace; to hug; to coil up ; To coil, wind around ;
'khril(d)	 verb-past 	'khril	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wind, coil round, to clasp round ; To embrace; to hug; to coil up ; To coil, wind around ;
'khril	 verb-fut 	'khril	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wind, coil round, to clasp round ; To embrace; to hug; to coil up ; To coil, wind around ;
'khris	 verb-pres 	'khris	  
'khris	 verb-past 	'khris	  
'khris	 verb-fut 	'khris	  
'khru	 verb-pres 	'khru	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wash, to bathe ; To become clean; to be washed ;To have diarrhea ;
khrus	 verb-past 	'khru	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wash, to bathe ; To become clean; to be washed ;To have diarrhea ;
'khru	 verb-fut 	'khru	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wash, to bathe ; To become clean; to be washed ;To have diarrhea ;
'khrug	 verb-pres 	'khrug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To be in commotion, to be disturbed ; To fight; to quarrel; to disturb or to be in disorder; to be confused ; 1. To be disturbed, to be agitated. 2. To fight, to quarrel ;
'khrug	 verb-past 	'khrug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To be in commotion, to be disturbed ; To fight; to quarrel; to disturb or to be in disorder; to be confused ; 1. To be disturbed, to be agitated. 2. To fight, to quarrel ;
'khrug	 verb-fut 	'khrug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To be in commotion, to be disturbed ; To fight; to quarrel; to disturb or to be in disorder; to be confused ; 1. To be disturbed, to be agitated. 2. To fight, to quarrel ;
'khrung	 verb-pres 	'khrung	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) 1. To be born to. 2. To arise, come from. 3. To come up, shoot, sprout, grow (Jä) ; To be born ;(honorific) To be born ;
'khrungs	 verb-past 	'khrung	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) 1. To be born to. 2. To arise, come from. 3. To come up, shoot, sprout, grow (Jä) ; To be born ;(honorific) To be born ;
'khrung	 verb-fut 	'khrung	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) 1. To be born to. 2. To arise, come from. 3. To come up, shoot, sprout, grow (Jä) ; To be born ;(honorific) To be born ;
'khru	 verb-pres 	'khrud	Transitive:  Voluntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To wash; to cleanse; to take a bath ; To wash ;
bkrus	 verb-past 	'khrud	Transitive:  Voluntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To wash; to cleanse; to take a bath ; To wash ;
bkru	 verb-fut 	'khrud	Transitive:  Voluntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To wash; to cleanse; to take a bath ; To wash ;
'khrul	 verb-pres 	'khrul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be insane or deranged ; To be mistaken, to be confused ; To be mistaken, to err, to be bewildered, to be deranged, to hallucinate ;
'khrul(d)	 verb-past 	'khrul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be insane or deranged ; To be mistaken, to be confused ; To be mistaken, to err, to be bewildered, to be deranged, to hallucinate ;
'khrul	 verb-fut 	'khrul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be insane or deranged ; To be mistaken, to be confused ; To be mistaken, to err, to be bewildered, to be deranged, to hallucinate ;
'khren	 verb-pres 	'khren	   1. To wish, to long for. 2. To look upon with envy, jealousy (Jä) ; To long for; to crave for; to be greedy ;
'khren(d)	 verb-past 	'khren	   1. To wish, to long for. 2. To look upon with envy, jealousy (Jä) ; To long for; to crave for; to be greedy ;
'khren	 verb-fut 	'khren	   1. To wish, to long for. 2. To look upon with envy, jealousy (Jä) ; To long for; to crave for; to be greedy ;
'khreb	 verb-pres 	'khreb	Transitive:  Involuntary:  To squint (? ;To be stubborn ;
'khreb	 verb-past 	'khreb	Transitive:  Involuntary:  To squint (? ;To be stubborn ;
'khreb	 verb-fut 	'khreb	Transitive:  Involuntary:  To squint (? ;To be stubborn ;
'khrel(d)	 verb-pres 	'khrel	   To hate, dislike; to be hesitant ;
khrel	 verb-past 	'khrel	   To hate, dislike; to be hesitant ;
'khrel	 verb-fut 	'khrel	   To hate, dislike; to be hesitant ;
'khrog	 verb-pres 	'khrog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To dislocate a joint. 2. To have a rumbling stomach, to have borborygmus. 3. To be hard of hearing ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Chang 1971: v.6)"]}
'khrogs	 verb-past 	'khrog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To dislocate a joint. 2. To have a rumbling stomach, to have borborygmus. 3. To be hard of hearing ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Chang 1971: v.6)"]}
'khrog	 verb-fut 	'khrog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To dislocate a joint. 2. To have a rumbling stomach, to have borborygmus. 3. To be hard of hearing ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Chang 1971: v.6)"]}
'khrol	 verb-pres 	'khrol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cause to sound; make a noise; play ; 3 To sound; to play musical instruments ;To draw out sound from a music instrument ; To play a musical instrument ;
bkrol(d)	 verb-past 	'khrol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cause to sound; make a noise; play ; 3 To sound; to play musical instruments ;To draw out sound from a music instrument ; To play a musical instrument ;
dkrol	 verb-fut 	'khrol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cause to sound; make a noise; play ; 3 To sound; to play musical instruments ;To draw out sound from a music instrument ; To play a musical instrument ;
'khrol	 verb-pres 	'khrol	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To sound ; To play a musical instrument ;
'khrol(d)	 verb-past 	'khrol	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To sound ; To play a musical instrument ;
'khrol	 verb-fut 	'khrol	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To sound ; To play a musical instrument ;
'khrol	 verb-pres 	'khrol	Intransitive:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To untie something ;
'khrol	 verb-past 	'khrol	Intransitive:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To untie something ;
'khrol	 verb-fut 	'khrol	Intransitive:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To untie something ;
gang	 verb-pres 	gang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fill, to make fill ; To be full; to become full ; To pervade the parts, to reach the amount ; To be full, to become full ; Compare kheng
gang	 verb-past 	gang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fill, to make fill ; To be full; to become full ; To pervade the parts, to reach the amount ; To be full, to become full ; Compare kheng
gang	 verb-fut 	gang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fill, to make fill ; To be full; to become full ; To pervade the parts, to reach the amount ; To be full, to become full ; Compare kheng
gab	 verb-pres 	gab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To hide, to conceal one's self ; To hide; to conceal one's self ; To hide ; To hide oneself, to conceal oneself ;
gab	 verb-past 	gab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To hide, to conceal one's self ; To hide; to conceal one's self ; To hide ; To hide oneself, to conceal oneself ;
'gab	 verb-fut 	gab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To hide, to conceal one's self ; To hide; to conceal one's self ; To hide ; To hide oneself, to conceal oneself ;
gal	 verb-pres 	gal	   To force, to press something on a person ; To be liable for; to be subject to a tax ;
gal(d)	 verb-past 	gal	   To force, to press something on a person ; To be liable for; to be subject to a tax ;
gal	 verb-fut 	gal	   To force, to press something on a person ; To be liable for; to be subject to a tax ;
gas	 verb-pres 	gas	Intransitive:    To split, to crack, to burst apart ; (for a substance) To fracture ; To break, split ; To be identified with 'gas
gas	 verb-past 	gas	Intransitive:    To split, to crack, to burst apart ; (for a substance) To fracture ; To break, split ; To be identified with 'gas
gas	 verb-fut 	gas	Intransitive:    To split, to crack, to burst apart ; (for a substance) To fracture ; To break, split ; To be identified with 'gas
gug	 verb-pres 	gug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To stoop, bend, to bow down. 2. (In West) To rub or scratch gently; to tickle ; To bend toward, to bend down ; To bend down, to stoop down, to be bent, to be crooked, to bow down ; Related to dgu
bkug	 verb-past 	gug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To stoop, bend, to bow down. 2. (In West) To rub or scratch gently; to tickle ; To bend toward, to bend down ; To bend down, to stoop down, to be bent, to be crooked, to bow down ; Related to dgu
bkug	 verb-fut 	gug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To stoop, bend, to bow down. 2. (In West) To rub or scratch gently; to tickle ; To bend toward, to bend down ; To bend down, to stoop down, to be bent, to be crooked, to bow down ; Related to dgu
gud	 verb-pres 	gud	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To decline, to fade ;
gud	 verb-past 	gud	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To decline, to fade ;
gud	 verb-fut 	gud	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To decline, to fade ;
gus	 verb-pres 	gus	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To respect; to show respect ; To be respectful, to bow down, to salute ;
gus	 verb-past 	gus	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To respect; to show respect ; To be respectful, to bow down, to salute ;
gus	 verb-fut 	gus	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To respect; to show respect ; To be respectful, to bow down, to salute ;
go	 verb-pres 	go	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To understand, to perceive mentally ; To hear; to comprehend or understand; to perceive ; 1. To understand. 2. To hear ; 1. To understand. 2. To hear ;
bgos	 verb-past 	go	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To understand, to perceive mentally ; To hear; to comprehend or understand; to perceive ; 1. To understand. 2. To hear ; 1. To understand. 2. To hear ;
bgo	 verb-fut 	go	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To understand, to perceive mentally ; To hear; to comprehend or understand; to perceive ; 1. To understand. 2. To hear ; 1. To understand. 2. To hear ;
gog	 verb-pres 	gog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To crawl. 2. To crumble off; to scale off ; To become older and older; to age; to decay; to crawl ; To crawl with four limbs on the ground ; To crawl ;
bkog	 verb-past 	gog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To crawl. 2. To crumble off; to scale off ; To become older and older; to age; to decay; to crawl ; To crawl with four limbs on the ground ; To crawl ;
dgog	 verb-fut 	gog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To crawl. 2. To crumble off; to scale off ; To become older and older; to age; to decay; to crawl ; To crawl with four limbs on the ground ; To crawl ;
god	 verb-pres 	god	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To suffer loss ; To be squandered, to be diminished ;
god	 verb-past 	god	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To suffer loss ; To be squandered, to be diminished ;
god	 verb-fut 	god	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To suffer loss ; To be squandered, to be diminished ;
gon	 verb-pres 	gon	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To put clothes on ; To put on; to wear ; To wear shoes etc ; A variant of gyon
gon(d)	 verb-past 	gon	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To put clothes on ; To put on; to wear ; To wear shoes etc ; A variant of gyon
gon	 verb-fut 	gon	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To put clothes on ; To put on; to wear ; To wear shoes etc ; A variant of gyon
goms	 verb-pres 	goms	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be accustomed to, used to ; To become familiar with, used to ; To become accustomed to, to become familiar with ;
goms	 verb-past 	goms	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be accustomed to, used to ; To become familiar with, used to ; To become accustomed to, to become familiar with ;
goms	 verb-fut 	goms	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be accustomed to, used to ; To become familiar with, used to ; To become accustomed to, to become familiar with ;
'gol	 verb-pres 	gol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To part, separate. 2. To deviate, err, go astray ; To go to an isolated place ; (archaic) To err, go wrong ; To mistake, to go astray, to miss ;
gol	 verb-past 	gol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To part, separate. 2. To deviate, err, go astray ; To go to an isolated place ; (archaic) To err, go wrong ; To mistake, to go astray, to miss ;
'gol	 verb-fut 	gol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To part, separate. 2. To deviate, err, go astray ; To go to an isolated place ; (archaic) To err, go wrong ; To mistake, to go astray, to miss ;
gos	 verb-pres 	gos	Transitive:    For one thing to stick on another thing;
gos	 verb-past 	gos	Transitive:    For one thing to stick on another thing;
gos	 verb-fut 	gos	Transitive:    For one thing to stick on another thing;
gyar	 verb-pres 	gyar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To encounter, to fall into (a state). 2. To go astray, to wander. 3. To be dispersed, to get lost ;
gyar	 verb-past 	gyar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To encounter, to fall into (a state). 2. To go astray, to wander. 3. To be dispersed, to get lost ;
gyar	 verb-fut 	gyar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To encounter, to fall into (a state). 2. To go astray, to wander. 3. To be dispersed, to get lost ;
gyed	 verb-pres 	gyed	Intransitive:    To open a gap ;
gyed	 verb-past 	gyed	Intransitive:    To open a gap ;
gyed	 verb-fut 	gyed	Intransitive:    To open a gap ;
dgyer	 verb-pres 	gyer	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To sing, chant ;To sing, chant (an expression of the Bon-po) ; To put in tune, to chant ;To recite with a certain intonation ;To sing, chant, to hum a tune ;
gyer	 verb-past 	gyer	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To sing, chant ;To sing, chant (an expression of the Bon-po) ; To put in tune, to chant ;To recite with a certain intonation ;To sing, chant, to hum a tune ;
gyer	 verb-fut 	gyer	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To sing, chant ;To sing, chant (an expression of the Bon-po) ; To put in tune, to chant ;To recite with a certain intonation ;To sing, chant, to hum a tune ;
gyes	 verb-pres 	gyes	   To analyze, to split asunder ; Elsewhere CD
	 verb-past 	gyes	   To analyze, to split asunder ; Elsewhere CD
	 verb-fut 	gyes	   To analyze, to split asunder ; Elsewhere CD
gyon	 verb-pres 	gyon	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To put on; to dress; to wear ; To cover the body with a hat &c. ; To wear, to put on ; Root given as gyon < gon (Beyer 1992: 83).
gyon	 verb-past 	gyon	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To put on; to dress; to wear ; To cover the body with a hat &c. ; To wear, to put on ; Root given as gyon < gon (Beyer 1992: 83).
gyon	 verb-fut 	gyon	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To put on; to dress; to wear ; To cover the body with a hat &c. ; To wear, to put on ; Root given as gyon < gon (Beyer 1992: 83).
gyol	 verb-pres 	gyol	Intransitive:    To have difficulty walking because of a problem with the feet (for either men or livestock) ;
gyol	 verb-past 	gyol	Intransitive:    To have difficulty walking because of a problem with the feet (for either men or livestock) ;
gyol	 verb-fut 	gyol	Intransitive:    To have difficulty walking because of a problem with the feet (for either men or livestock) ;
grag	 verb-pres 	grag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To sound forth; to utter a cry or sound, of men, animals, thunder, &c.; to shout ;To repeat a statement without agreeing with it ; 1. To make a noise, sound. 2. To speak. 3. To hear, understand (a name, some news &c.) ; 1. To resound, to emit sound, (preceded by ; Compare grags
grags	 verb-past 	grag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To sound forth; to utter a cry or sound, of men, animals, thunder, &c.; to shout ;To repeat a statement without agreeing with it ; 1. To make a noise, sound. 2. To speak. 3. To hear, understand (a name, some news &c.) ; 1. To resound, to emit sound, (preceded by ; Compare grags
grag	 verb-fut 	grag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To sound forth; to utter a cry or sound, of men, animals, thunder, &c.; to shout ;To repeat a statement without agreeing with it ; 1. To make a noise, sound. 2. To speak. 3. To hear, understand (a name, some news &c.) ; 1. To resound, to emit sound, (preceded by ; Compare grags
'grags	 verb-pres 	grags	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be famous; to be called ; To become well known, to be famous ; To be well known ; Compare grag
grags	 verb-past 	grags	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be famous; to be called ; To become well known, to be famous ; To be well known ; Compare grag
grags	 verb-fut 	grags	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be famous; to be called ; To become well known, to be famous ; To be well known ; Compare grag
grags	 verb-pres 	grags	   To bind, fasten up a load (Jä) ;
	 verb-past 	grags	   To bind, fasten up a load (Jä) ;
	 verb-fut 	grags	   To bind, fasten up a load (Jä) ;
grang	 verb-pres 	grang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   For the body to experience getting cold ;
grang	 verb-past 	grang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   For the body to experience getting cold ;
grang	 verb-fut 	grang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   For the body to experience getting cold ;
	 verb-pres 	grang	   Compare krang
	 verb-past 	grang	   Compare krang
	 verb-fut 	grang	   Compare krang
grabs	 verb-pres 	grabs	  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]};
grabs	 verb-past 	grabs	  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]};
grabs	 verb-fut 	grabs	  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]};
gram	 verb-pres 	gram	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To spread (as of grain, for drying). 2. To put or lay down in order (beams, &c.); to spread out; to display; to scatter; to draw (a curtain) ;To cover, pervade, arrive ; To be covered, to be strewn, to be scattered ; Compare 'grams
gram	 verb-past 	gram	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To spread (as of grain, for drying). 2. To put or lay down in order (beams, &c.); to spread out; to display; to scatter; to draw (a curtain) ;To cover, pervade, arrive ; To be covered, to be strewn, to be scattered ; Compare 'grams
gram	 verb-fut 	gram	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To spread (as of grain, for drying). 2. To put or lay down in order (beams, &c.); to spread out; to display; to scatter; to draw (a curtain) ;To cover, pervade, arrive ; To be covered, to be strewn, to be scattered ; Compare 'grams
gras	 verb-pres 	gras	   To bind ;
	 verb-past 	gras	   To bind ;
	 verb-fut 	gras	   To bind ;
grim	 verb-pres 	grim	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To hasten; to hurry (Sch.) ; To be wound tighter (of thread, rope &c.)  ;To become tight, to be tightened ;
grims	 verb-past 	grim	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To hasten; to hurry (Sch.) ; To be wound tighter (of thread, rope &c.)  ;To become tight, to be tightened ;
grim	 verb-fut 	grim	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To hasten; to hurry (Sch.) ; To be wound tighter (of thread, rope &c.)  ;To become tight, to be tightened ;
grug	 verb-pres 	grug	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To break into small pieces, to crumble, to bruise ; 1. To break into small pieces. 2. For men's skin to become course because of cold ; 1. To be chipped, to be broken, to be bruised. 2. To be chapped, cracked ;
grug	 verb-past 	grug	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To break into small pieces, to crumble, to bruise ; 1. To break into small pieces. 2. For men's skin to become course because of cold ; 1. To be chipped, to be broken, to be bruised. 2. To be chapped, cracked ;
grug	 verb-fut 	grug	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To break into small pieces, to crumble, to bruise ; 1. To break into small pieces. 2. For men's skin to become course because of cold ; 1. To be chipped, to be broken, to be bruised. 2. To be chapped, cracked ;
gron	 verb-pres 	gron	Transitive:    To waste, spoil ;
gron	 verb-past 	gron	Transitive:    To waste, spoil ;
gron	 verb-fut 	gron	Transitive:    To waste, spoil ;
grol	 verb-pres 	grol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To escape, be liberated, be released from ; To be free from suffering; to become free; to be liberated ; 1. For a knot or binding to come undone. 2. To individually separate, come to an end. 3. To become free ; To adjourn, to close down, to break up, to uncoil. 2. To be free, to be liberated ; To get untied ;
grol(d)	 verb-past 	grol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To escape, be liberated, be released from ; To be free from suffering; to become free; to be liberated ; 1. For a knot or binding to come undone. 2. To individually separate, come to an end. 3. To become free ; To adjourn, to close down, to break up, to uncoil. 2. To be free, to be liberated ; To get untied ;
'grol	 verb-fut 	grol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To escape, be liberated, be released from ; To be free from suffering; to become free; to be liberated ; 1. For a knot or binding to come undone. 2. To individually separate, come to an end. 3. To become free ; To adjourn, to close down, to break up, to uncoil. 2. To be free, to be liberated ; To get untied ;
gla	 verb-pres 	gla	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To hire; to rent ; 1. To exploit. 2. To hire. 3. To rent ; To hire, to rent ;
glas	 verb-past 	gla	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To hire; to rent ; 1. To exploit. 2. To hire. 3. To rent ; To hire, to rent ;
gla	 verb-fut 	gla	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To hire; to rent ; 1. To exploit. 2. To hire. 3. To rent ; To hire, to rent ;
glan	 verb-pres 	glan	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To patch up; to mend. 2. To return. 3. (colloquial for ; To return an answer; to reply. 2. To patch, mend (; To answer, to patch ; 1. To join, place, contact, one thing on another thing. 2. To send a reply, to harm in return for a reply which harms ; 1. To patch, mend. 2. To return a favor, to respond to, to reciprocate. 3. (archaic) To love, crave, desire ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 110)"]}
glan(d)	 verb-past 	glan	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To patch up; to mend. 2. To return. 3. (colloquial for ; To return an answer; to reply. 2. To patch, mend (; To answer, to patch ; 1. To join, place, contact, one thing on another thing. 2. To send a reply, to harm in return for a reply which harms ; 1. To patch, mend. 2. To return a favor, to respond to, to reciprocate. 3. (archaic) To love, crave, desire ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 110)"]}
glan	 verb-fut 	glan	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To patch up; to mend. 2. To return. 3. (colloquial for ; To return an answer; to reply. 2. To patch, mend (; To answer, to patch ; 1. To join, place, contact, one thing on another thing. 2. To send a reply, to harm in return for a reply which harms ; 1. To patch, mend. 2. To return a favor, to respond to, to reciprocate. 3. (archaic) To love, crave, desire ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 110)"]}
glal	 verb-pres 	glal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To yawn or gasp ; To display emotion through physical posture; to open [the] mouth; to yawn ; 1. To yawn. 2. To stretch out ; Compare the verb g.yal
glal(d)	 verb-past 	glal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To yawn or gasp ; To display emotion through physical posture; to open [the] mouth; to yawn ; 1. To yawn. 2. To stretch out ; Compare the verb g.yal
glal	 verb-fut 	glal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To yawn or gasp ; To display emotion through physical posture; to open [the] mouth; to yawn ; 1. To yawn. 2. To stretch out ; Compare the verb g.yal
glas	 verb-pres 	glas	   (archaic) To move house ;
	 verb-past 	glas	   (archaic) To move house ;
	 verb-fut 	glas	   (archaic) To move house ;
gleng	 verb-pres 	gleng	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To say, converse, relate, describe ; To talk, say, mention ;
glengs	 verb-past 	gleng	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To say, converse, relate, describe ; To talk, say, mention ;
gleng	 verb-fut 	gleng	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To say, converse, relate, describe ; To talk, say, mention ;
gleb	 verb-pres 	gleb	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make flat, plain (Cs.) (; To trample; to tread down; to press down by the feet (; To press down; to tread on ; To press down, make flat ; To flatten, press ;
glebs	 verb-past 	gleb	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make flat, plain (Cs.) (; To trample; to tread down; to press down by the feet (; To press down; to tread on ; To press down, make flat ; To flatten, press ;
gleb	 verb-fut 	gleb	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make flat, plain (Cs.) (; To trample; to tread down; to press down by the feet (; To press down; to tread on ; To press down, make flat ; To flatten, press ;
glem	 verb-pres 	glem	   To press, squeeze; to crush, squash (Jä) ; To squash, squeeze; to press, crush ;
glems	 verb-past 	glem	   To press, squeeze; to crush, squash (Jä) ; To squash, squeeze; to press, crush ;
glem	 verb-fut 	glem	   To press, squeeze; to crush, squash (Jä) ; To squash, squeeze; to press, crush ;
glong	 verb-pres 	glong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To scower ;
glongs	 verb-past 	glong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To scower ;
glong	 verb-fut 	glong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To scower ;
glod	 verb-pres 	glod	Transitive: Voluntary:   To relax, loosen; to release; to set free ; To release, to set free, to let go, to let loose ;
glod	 verb-past 	glod	Transitive: Voluntary:   To relax, loosen; to release; to set free ; To release, to set free, to let go, to let loose ;
glod	 verb-fut 	glod	Transitive: Voluntary:   To relax, loosen; to release; to set free ; To release, to set free, to let go, to let loose ;
dga'	 verb-pres 	dga'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To rejoice ; To be happy, please; to be delighted ; To become happy ; To be glad, to be pleased, to be happy, take delight ; Related by ablaut to mgu
dga'	 verb-past 	dga'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To rejoice ; To be happy, please; to be delighted ; To become happy ; To be glad, to be pleased, to be happy, take delight ; Related by ablaut to mgu
dga'	 verb-fut 	dga'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To rejoice ; To be happy, please; to be delighted ; To become happy ; To be glad, to be pleased, to be happy, take delight ; Related by ablaut to mgu
dgar	 verb-pres 	dgar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To separate; confine; place apart (men, cattle, goods) ; To segregate; to cross examine; to separate; to isolate ; 1. To separate. 2. To erect a tent with a poles. 3. To put under lamp light ;1. To set aside, to separate, to isolate, to quarantine, (usually following ;
bkar(d)	 verb-past 	dgar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To separate; confine; place apart (men, cattle, goods) ; To segregate; to cross examine; to separate; to isolate ; 1. To separate. 2. To erect a tent with a poles. 3. To put under lamp light ;1. To set aside, to separate, to isolate, to quarantine, (usually following ;
dgar	 verb-fut 	dgar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To separate; confine; place apart (men, cattle, goods) ; To segregate; to cross examine; to separate; to isolate ; 1. To separate. 2. To erect a tent with a poles. 3. To put under lamp light ;1. To set aside, to separate, to isolate, to quarantine, (usually following ;
dgas	 verb-pres 	dgas	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To crack; to split; to cleave (in two) ; To split, cleave, divide ; To crack; to split; to cut into halves or pieces ; To split, break apart wood &c. with a knife or axe ;
bkas	 verb-past 	dgas	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To crack; to split; to cleave (in two) ; To split, cleave, divide ; To crack; to split; to cut into halves or pieces ; To split, break apart wood &c. with a knife or axe ;
dgas	 verb-fut 	dgas	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To crack; to split; to cleave (in two) ; To split, cleave, divide ; To crack; to split; to cut into halves or pieces ; To split, break apart wood &c. with a knife or axe ;
dgu	 verb-pres 	dgu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bend; to make crooked ; To bend down, to become crooked ; To bend down, to stoop down ; Related to gug
dgu	 verb-past 	dgu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bend; to make crooked ; To bend down, to become crooked ; To bend down, to stoop down ; Related to gug
dgu	 verb-fut 	dgu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bend; to make crooked ; To bend down, to become crooked ; To bend down, to stoop down ; Related to gug
dge	 verb-pres 	dge	  
dge	 verb-past 	dge	  
	 verb-fut 	dge	  
dges	 verb-pres 	dges	   Delighted, pleased, cheered ; To be delighted; to rejoice ; Perhaps related to dgyes
dges	 verb-past 	dges	   Delighted, pleased, cheered ; To be delighted; to rejoice ; Perhaps related to dgyes
dges	 verb-fut 	dges	   Delighted, pleased, cheered ; To be delighted; to rejoice ; Perhaps related to dgyes
dgogs	 verb-pres 	dgogs	   To cough ;
gogs	 verb-past 	dgogs	   To cough ;
dgog	 verb-fut 	dgogs	   To cough ;
dgongs	 verb-pres 	dgongs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To think, to reflect, to contemplate, to consider. 2. (usually with terminative of the infinitive) To purpose, intend  ; To think, to reflect, to contemplate, to consider ;(honorific) To think, remember ;(honorific) To think, intend ;
dgongs	 verb-past 	dgongs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To think, to reflect, to contemplate, to consider. 2. (usually with terminative of the infinitive) To purpose, intend  ; To think, to reflect, to contemplate, to consider ;(honorific) To think, remember ;(honorific) To think, intend ;
dgongs	 verb-fut 	dgongs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To think, to reflect, to contemplate, to consider. 2. (usually with terminative of the infinitive) To purpose, intend  ; To think, to reflect, to contemplate, to consider ;(honorific) To think, remember ;(honorific) To think, intend ;
dgod	 verb-pres 	dgod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To laugh ; 1. To laugh. 2. To grow weak, languid, indolent ; To make laugh or smile ; To focus; to become mentally excited ; To make a sound of joy, and manifest a delighted mind ; To laugh ;
bgad	 verb-past 	dgod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To laugh ; 1. To laugh. 2. To grow weak, languid, indolent ; To make laugh or smile ; To focus; to become mentally excited ; To make a sound of joy, and manifest a delighted mind ; To laugh ;
bgad	 verb-fut 	dgod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To laugh ; 1. To laugh. 2. To grow weak, languid, indolent ; To make laugh or smile ; To focus; to become mentally excited ; To make a sound of joy, and manifest a delighted mind ; To laugh ;
dgos	 verb-pres 	dgos	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   Implies necessity and what is due or desired; to be necessary, to want ; To want; to be necessary ; To need, require ;
dgos	 verb-past 	dgos	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   Implies necessity and what is due or desired; to be necessary, to want ; To want; to be necessary ; To need, require ;
dgos	 verb-fut 	dgos	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   Implies necessity and what is due or desired; to be necessary, to want ; To want; to be necessary ; To need, require ;
	 verb-pres 	dgos	  
	 verb-past 	dgos	  
	 verb-fut 	dgos	  
dgye	 verb-pres 	dgye	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bend; to be curving or crooked ; To straighten ; To bend backwards or straighten the body ; To bend backwards, to lean backwards ; Compare dgyed
gye	 verb-past 	dgye	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bend; to be curving or crooked ; To straighten ; To bend backwards or straighten the body ; To bend backwards, to lean backwards ; Compare dgyed
dgye	 verb-fut 	dgye	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bend; to be curving or crooked ; To straighten ; To bend backwards or straighten the body ; To bend backwards, to lean backwards ; Compare dgyed
dgyed	 verb-pres 	dgyed	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fall backwards ; Compare dgye
dgyed	 verb-past 	dgyed	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fall backwards ; Compare dgye
dgyed	 verb-fut 	dgyed	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fall backwards ; Compare dgye
dgyel	 verb-pres 	dgyel	   To fall down, tumble down ; To cause a person or upright thing to lie horizontally ; Compare sgyel
	 verb-past 	dgyel	   To fall down, tumble down ; To cause a person or upright thing to lie horizontally ; Compare sgyel
	 verb-fut 	dgyel	   To fall down, tumble down ; To cause a person or upright thing to lie horizontally ; Compare sgyel
dgyes	 verb-pres 	dgyes	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) 1. To rejoice, to be glad. 2. To be pleased to; to choose ; To be delighted; to be happy, pleased; to rejoice ; (honorific) To become happy ; (honorific) To rejoice, to be happy, to be delighted ; Root given as dgyes < *dgya < *dga (Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15).
dgyes	 verb-past 	dgyes	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) 1. To rejoice, to be glad. 2. To be pleased to; to choose ; To be delighted; to be happy, pleased; to rejoice ; (honorific) To become happy ; (honorific) To rejoice, to be happy, to be delighted ; Root given as dgyes < *dgya < *dga (Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15).
dgyes	 verb-fut 	dgyes	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) 1. To rejoice, to be glad. 2. To be pleased to; to choose ; To be delighted; to be happy, pleased; to rejoice ; (honorific) To become happy ; (honorific) To rejoice, to be happy, to be delighted ; Root given as dgyes < *dgya < *dga (Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15).
dgrad	 verb-pres 	dgrad	   1. Stretch the feet making the space between the two feet larger. 2. To spread apart (claws &c.) ;
dgrad	 verb-past 	dgrad	   1. Stretch the feet making the space between the two feet larger. 2. To spread apart (claws &c.) ;
dgrad	 verb-fut 	dgrad	   1. Stretch the feet making the space between the two feet larger. 2. To spread apart (claws &c.) ;
krongs	 verb-pres 	dgrong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To die (respectful for ; To assassinate; to kill ; To kill ; (honorific) To be killed, to die ;
bkrongs	 verb-past 	dgrong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To die (respectful for ; To assassinate; to kill ; To kill ; (honorific) To be killed, to die ;
bkrong	 verb-fut 	dgrong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To die (respectful for ; To assassinate; to kill ; To kill ; (honorific) To be killed, to die ;
bgags	 verb-pres 	bgag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To block, stop; to obstruct; to limit, retain ; To impede, obstruct, block ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS"]}
bkags	 verb-past 	bgag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To block, stop; to obstruct; to limit, retain ; To impede, obstruct, block ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS"]}
bkag	 verb-fut 	bgag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To block, stop; to obstruct; to limit, retain ; To impede, obstruct, block ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS"]}
bgam	 verb-pres 	bgam	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To estimate a person; to examine indirectly, to spy ;  1. To examine, determine, size up a situation ; To test, to estimate, to judge, to guess ;
bgam	 verb-past 	bgam	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To estimate a person; to examine indirectly, to spy ;  1. To examine, determine, size up a situation ; To test, to estimate, to judge, to guess ;
bgam	 verb-fut 	bgam	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To estimate a person; to examine indirectly, to spy ;  1. To examine, determine, size up a situation ; To test, to estimate, to judge, to guess ;
bgo	 verb-pres 	bgo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To put on, to wear ; To make wear, to wear a garment &c. ; 1. To wear, to clothe, to put on. 2. To divide, to apportion ;
bgos	 verb-past 	bgo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To put on, to wear ; To make wear, to wear a garment &c. ; 1. To wear, to clothe, to put on. 2. To divide, to apportion ;
bgo	 verb-fut 	bgo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To put on, to wear ; To make wear, to wear a garment &c. ; 1. To wear, to clothe, to put on. 2. To divide, to apportion ;
bgod	 verb-pres 	bgod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To divide ; To divide; to share ; 1. To allocate, apportion, allot. 2. (mathematics) To divide ; To divide, apportion, allocate ;
bgos	 verb-past 	bgod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To divide ; To divide; to share ; 1. To allocate, apportion, allot. 2. (mathematics) To divide ; To divide, apportion, allocate ;
bgo	 verb-fut 	bgod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To divide ; To divide; to share ; 1. To allocate, apportion, allot. 2. (mathematics) To divide ; To divide, apportion, allocate ;
bgyid	 verb-pres 	bgyid	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To do, to make ; To work, to do ;To do an action ;To do, to perform, to make, to carry out ;
bgyis	 verb-past 	bgyid	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To do, to make ; To work, to do ;To do an action ;To do, to perform, to make, to carry out ;
bgyi	 verb-fut 	bgyid	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To do, to make ; To work, to do ;To do an action ;To do, to perform, to make, to carry out ;
'dren	 verb-pres 	bgrang	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To number, count, calculate ; To count, calculate, find out by working with numbers ; To count, enumerate, to compute, to calculate, to list, relate ;
bgrangs	 verb-past 	bgrang	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To number, count, calculate ; To count, calculate, find out by working with numbers ; To count, enumerate, to compute, to calculate, to list, relate ;
bgrang	 verb-fut 	bgrang	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To number, count, calculate ; To count, calculate, find out by working with numbers ; To count, enumerate, to compute, to calculate, to list, relate ;
bgrad	 verb-pres 	bgrad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To open wide ; To spread, enter ; To open widely, e.g. one's mouth or legs &c. To stare ; To open the eyes wide ; 1. To open wide, to spread apart, to expose. 2. To stretch out ;
bgrad	 verb-past 	bgrad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To open wide ; To spread, enter ; To open widely, e.g. one's mouth or legs &c. To stare ; To open the eyes wide ; 1. To open wide, to spread apart, to expose. 2. To stretch out ;
bgrad	 verb-fut 	bgrad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To open wide ; To spread, enter ; To open widely, e.g. one's mouth or legs &c. To stare ; To open the eyes wide ; 1. To open wide, to spread apart, to expose. 2. To stretch out ;
bgril	 verb-pres 	bgril	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fall down; to drop down ; To cause to fall down, to bring down ;
bgril	 verb-past 	bgril	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fall down; to drop down ; To cause to fall down, to bring down ;
bgril	 verb-fut 	bgril	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fall down; to drop down ; To cause to fall down, to bring down ;
grungs	 verb-pres 	bgrung	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To strain; to depurate [sic] ; To purify, to clean, to filter ;To purify (water &c.) ; To filter, to strain, to purify water ;
bgrungs	 verb-past 	bgrung	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To strain; to depurate [sic] ; To purify, to clean, to filter ;To purify (water &c.) ; To filter, to strain, to purify water ;
bgrung	 verb-fut 	bgrung	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To strain; to depurate [sic] ; To purify, to clean, to filter ;To purify (water &c.) ; To filter, to strain, to purify water ;
grus	 verb-pres 	bgrud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To clear of husks; to shell ; To peel, to husk ; To husk, to hull ;
bgrus	 verb-past 	bgrud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To clear of husks; to shell ; To peel, to husk ; To husk, to hull ;
bgru	 verb-fut 	bgrud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To clear of husks; to shell ; To peel, to husk ; To husk, to hull ;
bgre	 verb-pres 	bgre	   (archaic) To wallow, to roll on the ground ;
	 verb-past 	bgre	   (archaic) To wallow, to roll on the ground ;
	 verb-fut 	bgre	   (archaic) To wallow, to roll on the ground ;
bgre	 verb-pres 	bgres	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To grow old; to age ; (honorific) To become aged, to grow old ; Root given as bgre < *b-gria (Beyer 1992: 83 n. 16).
bgres	 verb-past 	bgres	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To grow old; to age ; (honorific) To become aged, to grow old ; Root given as bgre < *b-gria (Beyer 1992: 83 n. 16).
bgre	 verb-fut 	bgres	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To grow old; to age ; (honorific) To become aged, to grow old ; Root given as bgre < *b-gria (Beyer 1992: 83 n. 16).
bgro	 verb-pres 	bgro	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To argue, discuss, confer with, consider. 2. To resolve, decide ; To discuss; to have a discussion; to debate ; To discuss, confer ; To discuss, consult, confer ;
bgros	 verb-past 	bgro	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To argue, discuss, confer with, consider. 2. To resolve, decide ; To discuss; to have a discussion; to debate ; To discuss, confer ; To discuss, consult, confer ;
bgro	 verb-fut 	bgro	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To argue, discuss, confer with, consider. 2. To resolve, decide ; To discuss; to have a discussion; to debate ; To discuss, confer ; To discuss, consult, confer ;
bgrong	 verb-pres 	bgrong	 Voluntary:  {:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["ND"]}
bgrangs	 verb-past 	bgrong	 Voluntary:  {:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["ND"]}
bgrang	 verb-fut 	bgrong	 Voluntary:  {:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["ND"]}
bgrod	 verb-pres 	bgrod	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To walk; to get over; wonder ; To take route; to cross to go, to get through ;1. To go. 2. ;To go, to cross, to transverse ; In the verb appendix of TC
bgrod	 verb-past 	bgrod	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To walk; to get over; wonder ; To take route; to cross to go, to get through ;1. To go. 2. ;To go, to cross, to transverse ; In the verb appendix of TC
bgrod	 verb-fut 	bgrod	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To walk; to get over; wonder ; To take route; to cross to go, to get through ;1. To go. 2. ;To go, to cross, to transverse ; In the verb appendix of TC
mgar	 verb-pres 	mgar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To smith ; To forge utensils out of iron ;
mgar	 verb-past 	mgar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To smith ; To forge utensils out of iron ;
mgar	 verb-fut 	mgar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To smith ; To forge utensils out of iron ;
mgu	 verb-pres 	mgu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To rejoice, to be glad, joyful, content. 2. To exhilarate, to gladden, to make content ; To rejoice; to satisfy; to be glad ; To rejoice, to be pleased ; Related by ablaut to dga'
mgu	 verb-past 	mgu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To rejoice, to be glad, joyful, content. 2. To exhilarate, to gladden, to make content ; To rejoice; to satisfy; to be glad ; To rejoice, to be pleased ; Related by ablaut to dga'
mgu	 verb-fut 	mgu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To rejoice, to be glad, joyful, content. 2. To exhilarate, to gladden, to make content ; To rejoice; to satisfy; to be glad ; To rejoice, to be pleased ; Related by ablaut to dga'
mgyog	 verb-pres 	mgyog	 Involuntary:   To be quick.;
mgyogs	 verb-past 	mgyog	 Involuntary:   To be quick.;
mgyog	 verb-fut 	mgyog	 Involuntary:   To be quick.;
'gag	 verb-pres 	'gag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be stopped; to be halted ; 1. To speak unclearly, to have difficulty speaking. 2. For something to be unable to be free from inside (e.g. a hole). 3. For a continuum to break off ; To be blocked, to be obstructed ;
'gags	 verb-past 	'gag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be stopped; to be halted ; 1. To speak unclearly, to have difficulty speaking. 2. For something to be unable to be free from inside (e.g. a hole). 3. For a continuum to break off ; To be blocked, to be obstructed ;
'gag	 verb-fut 	'gag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be stopped; to be halted ; 1. To speak unclearly, to have difficulty speaking. 2. For something to be unable to be free from inside (e.g. a hole). 3. For a continuum to break off ; To be blocked, to be obstructed ;
'gad	 verb-pres 	'gad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To crack, split apart. 2. To make the pedals of a flower open ;  To crack open, to blast apart ;
bkad	 verb-past 	'gad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To crack, split apart. 2. To make the pedals of a flower open ;  To crack open, to blast apart ;
dgad	 verb-fut 	'gad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To crack, split apart. 2. To make the pedals of a flower open ;  To crack open, to blast apart ;
'gam	 verb-pres 	'gam	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cram into the mouth, especially of dry edibles ; To throw food into the mouth ; 1. To examine, determine, size up a situation 2. To put (roasted barley flour &c.) in to the mouth ; To swallow, gulp down (used of barley flour and dry powders) ;
'gams	 verb-past 	'gam	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cram into the mouth, especially of dry edibles ; To throw food into the mouth ; 1. To examine, determine, size up a situation 2. To put (roasted barley flour &c.) in to the mouth ; To swallow, gulp down (used of barley flour and dry powders) ;
'gam	 verb-fut 	'gam	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cram into the mouth, especially of dry edibles ; To throw food into the mouth ; 1. To examine, determine, size up a situation 2. To put (roasted barley flour &c.) in to the mouth ; To swallow, gulp down (used of barley flour and dry powders) ;
'gal	 verb-pres 	'gal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To contradict, to disagree, to mistake ; To be mistaken; to be violated, trespassed ; To be contradictory, to contradict, to be contrary to ;
'gal(d)	 verb-past 	'gal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To contradict, to disagree, to mistake ; To be mistaken; to be violated, trespassed ; To be contradictory, to contradict, to be contrary to ;
'gal	 verb-fut 	'gal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To contradict, to disagree, to mistake ; To be mistaken; to be violated, trespassed ; To be contradictory, to contradict, to be contrary to ;
'gas	 verb-pres 	'gas	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To split, to crack, to burst apart ; To split, cleave, divide ; To cleave, crack, split (wood &c.) by striking with a knife or axe ; To  crack, to split ; This verb and dgas
bkas	 verb-past 	'gas	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To split, to crack, to burst apart ; To split, cleave, divide ; To cleave, crack, split (wood &c.) by striking with a knife or axe ; To  crack, to split ; This verb and dgas
dgas	 verb-fut 	'gas	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To split, to crack, to burst apart ; To split, cleave, divide ; To cleave, crack, split (wood &c.) by striking with a knife or axe ; To  crack, to split ; This verb and dgas
'gas	 verb-pres 	'gas	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To split, to crack, to burst apart ; To be cracked, to be broken ; To crack, to split open, to burst open ; To be identified with gas
gas	 verb-past 	'gas	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To split, to crack, to burst apart ; To be cracked, to be broken ; To crack, to split open, to burst open ; To be identified with gas
dgas	 verb-fut 	'gas	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To split, to crack, to burst apart ; To be cracked, to be broken ; To crack, to split open, to burst open ; To be identified with gas
'gi	 verb-pres 	'gi	Intransitive:   (dialect) To be ;
	 verb-past 	'gi	Intransitive:   (dialect) To be ;
	 verb-fut 	'gi	Intransitive:   (dialect) To be ;
'gug	 verb-pres 	'gugs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To summon, bring back ; To call, recall somebody; to cause to come; to bend something ; 1. To make bend. 2. To overpower. 3. To change the characteristic of something into something else ; 1. To bend, to cause to bend. 2. To summon, to call, to attract, to interest ;
bkug	 verb-past 	'gugs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To summon, bring back ; To call, recall somebody; to cause to come; to bend something ; 1. To make bend. 2. To overpower. 3. To change the characteristic of something into something else ; 1. To bend, to cause to bend. 2. To summon, to call, to attract, to interest ;
dgug	 verb-fut 	'gugs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To summon, bring back ; To call, recall somebody; to cause to come; to bend something ; 1. To make bend. 2. To overpower. 3. To change the characteristic of something into something else ; 1. To bend, to cause to bend. 2. To summon, to call, to attract, to interest ;
'gud	 verb-pres 	'gud	   To go aside; to avoid ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
gud	 verb-past 	'gud	   To go aside; to avoid ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
gud	 verb-fut 	'gud	   To go aside; to avoid ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
'gum	 verb-pres 	'gum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To die (of natural death, of disease) ; To die ; Compare kum
gum	 verb-past 	'gum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To die (of natural death, of disease) ; To die ; Compare kum
'gum	 verb-fut 	'gum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To die (of natural death, of disease) ; To die ; Compare kum
'gums	 verb-pres 	'gums	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To kill; to put to death ;  To kill ;
bkums	 verb-past 	'gums	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To kill; to put to death ;  To kill ;
dgum	 verb-fut 	'gums	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To kill; to put to death ;  To kill ;
'gul	 verb-pres 	'gul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To move, quake, shake ; To become unsteady, to move ; To move apart from a previous location, to change a previous characteristic or location ; To move, to shake ;
'gul(d)	 verb-past 	'gul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To move, quake, shake ; To become unsteady, to move ; To move apart from a previous location, to change a previous characteristic or location ; To move, to shake ;
'gul	 verb-fut 	'gul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To move, quake, shake ; To become unsteady, to move ; To move apart from a previous location, to change a previous characteristic or location ; To move, to shake ;
'geng	 verb-pres 	'geng	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fill up, to satiate ; To fill up; to fulfill; to pull the string of a bow with an arrow for shooting ; 1. To fill. 2. To draw a bow string ; Compare skong
bkang	 verb-past 	'geng	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fill up, to satiate ; To fill up; to fulfill; to pull the string of a bow with an arrow for shooting ; 1. To fill. 2. To draw a bow string ; Compare skong
dgang	 verb-fut 	'geng	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fill up, to satiate ; To fill up; to fulfill; to pull the string of a bow with an arrow for shooting ; 1. To fill. 2. To draw a bow string ; Compare skong
'gebs	 verb-pres 	'gebs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cover up, to put on; to conceal ; To cause to spread over; to cover; to put on, to wear ; 1. To become obscure from darkness. 2. To hide, make secret ; To conceal, to cover ;
bkab	 verb-past 	'gebs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cover up, to put on; to conceal ; To cause to spread over; to cover; to put on, to wear ; 1. To become obscure from darkness. 2. To hide, make secret ; To conceal, to cover ;
dgab	 verb-fut 	'gebs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cover up, to put on; to conceal ; To cause to spread over; to cover; to put on, to wear ; 1. To become obscure from darkness. 2. To hide, make secret ; To conceal, to cover ;
'gem	 verb-pres 	'gem	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To defeat, subdue, overcome ;To crush ;
'gems	 verb-past 	'gem	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To defeat, subdue, overcome ;To crush ;
'gem	 verb-fut 	'gem	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To defeat, subdue, overcome ;To crush ;
'gel	 verb-pres 	'gel	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To load, to lay on a burden, to impose tax or rent, to commission; to put, to place on, over; to impose a fine; to give punishment ; To give responsibilities, to load; to impose, lay a tax, to levy a tax ; 1. To burden cattle with a load. 2. To trust, hope. 3. For someone of high rank to impose a certain task or aim to be accomplished upon person of lower rank ;  1. To impose, to burden. 2. To load a pack animal. 3. to hang. 4. To trust, to entrust ;
kal	 verb-past 	'gel	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To load, to lay on a burden, to impose tax or rent, to commission; to put, to place on, over; to impose a fine; to give punishment ; To give responsibilities, to load; to impose, lay a tax, to levy a tax ; 1. To burden cattle with a load. 2. To trust, hope. 3. For someone of high rank to impose a certain task or aim to be accomplished upon person of lower rank ;  1. To impose, to burden. 2. To load a pack animal. 3. to hang. 4. To trust, to entrust ;
dgal	 verb-fut 	'gel	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To load, to lay on a burden, to impose tax or rent, to commission; to put, to place on, over; to impose a fine; to give punishment ; To give responsibilities, to load; to impose, lay a tax, to levy a tax ; 1. To burden cattle with a load. 2. To trust, hope. 3. For someone of high rank to impose a certain task or aim to be accomplished upon person of lower rank ;  1. To impose, to burden. 2. To load a pack animal. 3. to hang. 4. To trust, to entrust ;
'go	 verb-pres 	'go	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To stain, lose color, dirty sully ; To be infected; to be covered ; For one thing to stick to or contaminate another thing ; 1. To catch (an illness), to be infected. 2. To be stained, to be sullied, to have a stain or substance stick to oneself ;
'gos	 verb-past 	'go	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To stain, lose color, dirty sully ; To be infected; to be covered ; For one thing to stick to or contaminate another thing ; 1. To catch (an illness), to be infected. 2. To be stained, to be sullied, to have a stain or substance stick to oneself ;
'go	 verb-fut 	'go	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To stain, lose color, dirty sully ; To be infected; to be covered ; For one thing to stick to or contaminate another thing ; 1. To catch (an illness), to be infected. 2. To be stained, to be sullied, to have a stain or substance stick to oneself ;
'gog	 verb-pres 	'gog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To prevent; to avert unfortunate events, as danger, to suppress, drive back, expel ; To hinder, obstruct, keep back or in ;To block, obstruct; to stop, hinder; limit ;1. To obstruct, to block, to interrupt. 2. To resist, to oppose ; Compare bgag
bkag	 verb-past 	'gog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To prevent; to avert unfortunate events, as danger, to suppress, drive back, expel ; To hinder, obstruct, keep back or in ;To block, obstruct; to stop, hinder; limit ;1. To obstruct, to block, to interrupt. 2. To resist, to oppose ; Compare bgag
dgag	 verb-fut 	'gog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To prevent; to avert unfortunate events, as danger, to suppress, drive back, expel ; To hinder, obstruct, keep back or in ;To block, obstruct; to stop, hinder; limit ;1. To obstruct, to block, to interrupt. 2. To resist, to oppose ; Compare bgag
dgog	 verb-pres 	'gog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To take away forcibly; to snatch, take away, pull out. 2. To take off a cover, lid ; To detach from; to pull out; to extract; to extirpate ;1. For something which adheres together to separate apart. 2. To pluck, comb ;1. To extract, to pull out. 2. To detach, to scrape off, to peel off ;
bkogs	 verb-past 	'gog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To take away forcibly; to snatch, take away, pull out. 2. To take off a cover, lid ; To detach from; to pull out; to extract; to extirpate ;1. For something which adheres together to separate apart. 2. To pluck, comb ;1. To extract, to pull out. 2. To detach, to scrape off, to peel off ;
bkog	 verb-fut 	'gog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To take away forcibly; to snatch, take away, pull out. 2. To take off a cover, lid ; To detach from; to pull out; to extract; to extirpate ;1. For something which adheres together to separate apart. 2. To pluck, comb ;1. To extract, to pull out. 2. To detach, to scrape off, to peel off ;
'gong	 verb-pres 	'gong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bewitch, enchant, pass over, get the better of. (the past  ; To be trespassed or violated; to be disgraced; to be afraid of ; 1. To obtain release from entrapment. 2. To surpass, exceed ;  (archaic) 1. To be intimidated, to be afraid, to be oppressed. 2. To transgress. 3. To rival, to get the better of. 4. To demean, to put down. 5. To exceed, to go beyond. 6. To be released, to escape ; Compare bkong
bkong	 verb-past 	'gong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bewitch, enchant, pass over, get the better of. (the past  ; To be trespassed or violated; to be disgraced; to be afraid of ; 1. To obtain release from entrapment. 2. To surpass, exceed ;  (archaic) 1. To be intimidated, to be afraid, to be oppressed. 2. To transgress. 3. To rival, to get the better of. 4. To demean, to put down. 5. To exceed, to go beyond. 6. To be released, to escape ; Compare bkong
'gong	 verb-fut 	'gong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bewitch, enchant, pass over, get the better of. (the past  ; To be trespassed or violated; to be disgraced; to be afraid of ; 1. To obtain release from entrapment. 2. To surpass, exceed ;  (archaic) 1. To be intimidated, to be afraid, to be oppressed. 2. To transgress. 3. To rival, to get the better of. 4. To demean, to put down. 5. To exceed, to go beyond. 6. To be released, to escape ; Compare bkong
'god	 verb-pres 	'god	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To design, project, plan; to found, establish, lay out; to fix, put ; To build, arrange, plan ; To register, make a record; to coronate, enthrone; to make peace; to put a signature or seal on ; 1.  To insert, to establish, to put, to secure. to rectify. 2. To design, to formulate, to plan out, to build, to lay out. 3. To preste, to sign, to record, to document ; Root given as *go+d (Chang 1971: vii.18).
bgod	 verb-past 	'god	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To design, project, plan; to found, establish, lay out; to fix, put ; To build, arrange, plan ; To register, make a record; to coronate, enthrone; to make peace; to put a signature or seal on ; 1.  To insert, to establish, to put, to secure. to rectify. 2. To design, to formulate, to plan out, to build, to lay out. 3. To preste, to sign, to record, to document ; Root given as *go+d (Chang 1971: vii.18).
dgod	 verb-fut 	'god	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To design, project, plan; to found, establish, lay out; to fix, put ; To build, arrange, plan ; To register, make a record; to coronate, enthrone; to make peace; to put a signature or seal on ; 1.  To insert, to establish, to put, to secure. to rectify. 2. To design, to formulate, to plan out, to build, to lay out. 3. To preste, to sign, to record, to document ; Root given as *go+d (Chang 1971: vii.18).
gom	 verb-pres 	'gom	Transitive:  Involuntary:  To walk, step, stride, pace ;1. To tread. 2. (Acc. Sch. = ; To walk; to pace ; To pass thither from above ; To walk over, to cross over, to pass over ;
bgoms	 verb-past 	'gom	Transitive:  Involuntary:  To walk, step, stride, pace ;1. To tread. 2. (Acc. Sch. = ; To walk; to pace ; To pass thither from above ; To walk over, to cross over, to pass over ;
bgomd	 verb-fut 	'gom	Transitive:  Involuntary:  To walk, step, stride, pace ;1. To tread. 2. (Acc. Sch. = ; To walk; to pace ; To pass thither from above ; To walk over, to cross over, to pass over ;
bgor	 verb-pres 	'gor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To linger, loiter in the way; delay ; To delay; to detain ; To make time pass ; To take [time], to elapse, to delay ;
bgor(d)	 verb-past 	'gor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To linger, loiter in the way; delay ; To delay; to detain ; To make time pass ; To take [time], to elapse, to delay ;
bgor	 verb-fut 	'gor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To linger, loiter in the way; delay ; To delay; to detain ; To make time pass ; To take [time], to elapse, to delay ;
'gor	 verb-pres 	'gor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To tarry, linger, loiter ; To be delayed; to be late ; To take time, to be delayed ;
'gor(d)	 verb-past 	'gor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To tarry, linger, loiter ; To be delayed; to be late ; To take time, to be delayed ;
'gor	 verb-fut 	'gor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To tarry, linger, loiter ; To be delayed; to be late ; To take time, to be delayed ;
'gyag	 verb-pres 	'gyag	   To be sold, spend, expended (Cs.) ; To lose, to destroy ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}CD .
gyags	 verb-past 	'gyag	   To be sold, spend, expended (Cs.) ; To lose, to destroy ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}CD .
gyag	 verb-fut 	'gyag	   To be sold, spend, expended (Cs.) ; To lose, to destroy ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}CD .
'gyang	 verb-pres 	'gyang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be delayed, postponed, farthest [sic] ; To be delayed; to be late ; For time to pass ; To delay, to postpone, to put off ;
'gyangs	 verb-past 	'gyang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be delayed, postponed, farthest [sic] ; To be delayed; to be late ; For time to pass ; To delay, to postpone, to put off ;
'gyang	 verb-fut 	'gyang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be delayed, postponed, farthest [sic] ; To be delayed; to be late ; For time to pass ; To delay, to postpone, to put off ;
'gyangs	 verb-pres 	'gyangs	Transitive: Voluntary:   To delay ; To cause a delay ; To postpone, delay ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}
bgyangs	 verb-past 	'gyangs	Transitive: Voluntary:   To delay ; To cause a delay ; To postpone, delay ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}
bgyang	 verb-fut 	'gyangs	Transitive: Voluntary:   To delay ; To cause a delay ; To postpone, delay ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}
'gyas	 verb-pres 	'gyas	   To decay; to diminish ;
gyas	 verb-past 	'gyas	   To decay; to diminish ;
gya	 verb-fut 	'gyas	   To decay; to diminish ;
'gying	 verb-pres 	'gying	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To assume air or appearance of greatness; to sit lifting up in the manner of a lion. 2. To look haughtily; to look down upon; to slight a person ; To assume a posture, to pose ;  To put on airs, to act haughtily or arrogantly ;
'gyings	 verb-past 	'gying	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To assume air or appearance of greatness; to sit lifting up in the manner of a lion. 2. To look haughtily; to look down upon; to slight a person ; To assume a posture, to pose ;  To put on airs, to act haughtily or arrogantly ;
'gying	 verb-fut 	'gying	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To assume air or appearance of greatness; to sit lifting up in the manner of a lion. 2. To look haughtily; to look down upon; to slight a person ; To assume a posture, to pose ;  To put on airs, to act haughtily or arrogantly ;
'gyu	 verb-pres 	'gyu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To move quickly to and fro (e.g. lightning, a mirage, the mind) ; To focus one's mind on an object; to scatter from the intended object of meditation; to form the limbs of a child in the womb ;1. To quiver back and forth. 2. To be mentally distracted ;To move ; Compare rgyu
'gyus	 verb-past 	'gyu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To move quickly to and fro (e.g. lightning, a mirage, the mind) ; To focus one's mind on an object; to scatter from the intended object of meditation; to form the limbs of a child in the womb ;1. To quiver back and forth. 2. To be mentally distracted ;To move ; Compare rgyu
'gyu	 verb-fut 	'gyu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To move quickly to and fro (e.g. lightning, a mirage, the mind) ; To focus one's mind on an object; to scatter from the intended object of meditation; to form the limbs of a child in the womb ;1. To quiver back and forth. 2. To be mentally distracted ;To move ; Compare rgyu
'gyur	 verb-pres 	'gyur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To become; to grow, increase, change. 2. (Annexed to an infinitive may denote either the perfect or future tense, the context decides in every instance how it is to be understood) ; To change, become ; For an essence, ingredient, circumstance &c. to arise as different from before ; 1. To change, alter. 2. To turn into, become ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS"]}
gyur(d)	 verb-past 	'gyur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To become; to grow, increase, change. 2. (Annexed to an infinitive may denote either the perfect or future tense, the context decides in every instance how it is to be understood) ; To change, become ; For an essence, ingredient, circumstance &c. to arise as different from before ; 1. To change, alter. 2. To turn into, become ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS"]}
'gyur	 verb-fut 	'gyur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To become; to grow, increase, change. 2. (Annexed to an infinitive may denote either the perfect or future tense, the context decides in every instance how it is to be understood) ; To change, become ; For an essence, ingredient, circumstance &c. to arise as different from before ; 1. To change, alter. 2. To turn into, become ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS"]}
'gye	 verb-pres 	'gyed	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To divide, to scatter, disperse. 2. To institute, set going. 3. To give an entertainment, banquet ; To focus rays; to send; to distribute; to fight a war ; 1. To deploy (troops in battle). 2. To apply paint, varnish. 3. To mutually fight. 4. To give, having divided into pieces. 5. To give off, radiant light ;1. To send, to dispatch. 2. To emit. 3. To display, to send forth. 4. To dispute. 5. To give ;
bkyes	 verb-past 	'gyed	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To divide, to scatter, disperse. 2. To institute, set going. 3. To give an entertainment, banquet ; To focus rays; to send; to distribute; to fight a war ; 1. To deploy (troops in battle). 2. To apply paint, varnish. 3. To mutually fight. 4. To give, having divided into pieces. 5. To give off, radiant light ;1. To send, to dispatch. 2. To emit. 3. To display, to send forth. 4. To dispute. 5. To give ;
bkye	 verb-fut 	'gyed	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To divide, to scatter, disperse. 2. To institute, set going. 3. To give an entertainment, banquet ; To focus rays; to send; to distribute; to fight a war ; 1. To deploy (troops in battle). 2. To apply paint, varnish. 3. To mutually fight. 4. To give, having divided into pieces. 5. To give off, radiant light ;1. To send, to dispatch. 2. To emit. 3. To display, to send forth. 4. To dispute. 5. To give ;
'gyed	 verb-pres 	'gyed	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To stretch, prolong ;
bkyed	 verb-past 	'gyed	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To stretch, prolong ;
bgyed	 verb-fut 	'gyed	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To stretch, prolong ;
'gyed	 verb-pres 	'gyed	   Perhaps to be connected with 'gyed
'gyed	 verb-past 	'gyed	   Perhaps to be connected with 'gyed
'gyed	 verb-fut 	'gyed	   Perhaps to be connected with 'gyed
'gyer(d)	 verb-pres 	'gyer	   To drop, or let fall; to throw down; to quit, abandon, throw away (Sch.) ; To give up; to abandon ; (archaic) 1. To get rid of, hide away. 2. To separate, break a connection ; (archaic) To renounce, to abandon ;
gyer	 verb-past 	'gyer	   To drop, or let fall; to throw down; to quit, abandon, throw away (Sch.) ; To give up; to abandon ; (archaic) 1. To get rid of, hide away. 2. To separate, break a connection ; (archaic) To renounce, to abandon ;
'gyer	 verb-fut 	'gyer	   To drop, or let fall; to throw down; to quit, abandon, throw away (Sch.) ; To give up; to abandon ; (archaic) 1. To get rid of, hide away. 2. To separate, break a connection ; (archaic) To renounce, to abandon ;
'gyel	 verb-pres 	'gyel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fall; to tumble down ; (for a person or upright thing) To lie horizontally ; To fall, to collapse ; Root given as gyel < *gyal < gal (Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15).
'gyel(d)	 verb-past 	'gyel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fall; to tumble down ; (for a person or upright thing) To lie horizontally ; To fall, to collapse ; Root given as gyel < *gyal < gal (Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15).
'gyel	 verb-fut 	'gyel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fall; to tumble down ; (for a person or upright thing) To lie horizontally ; To fall, to collapse ; Root given as gyel < *gyal < gal (Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15).
'gye	 verb-pres 	'gyes	Intransitive: Voluntary:   1. To be dispersed; to be divided. 2. To issue, proceed, spread, branch from ; To become separate; to disperse; to be divorced ; 1. To separate, place apart ; To be separated, to separate, to split ; Root given as gye < *gya < *ga (Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15).
gyes	 verb-past 	'gyes	Intransitive: Voluntary:   1. To be dispersed; to be divided. 2. To issue, proceed, spread, branch from ; To become separate; to disperse; to be divorced ; 1. To separate, place apart ; To be separated, to separate, to split ; Root given as gye < *gya < *ga (Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15).
'gyes	 verb-fut 	'gyes	Intransitive: Voluntary:   1. To be dispersed; to be divided. 2. To issue, proceed, spread, branch from ; To become separate; to disperse; to be divorced ; 1. To separate, place apart ; To be separated, to separate, to split ; Root given as gye < *gya < *ga (Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15).
'gyog	 verb-pres 	'gyog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To ascend ; To lift, hold a thing up ;To raise, to lift, to support ;
'gyags	 verb-past 	'gyog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To ascend ; To lift, hold a thing up ;To raise, to lift, to support ;
'gyog	 verb-fut 	'gyog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To ascend ; To lift, hold a thing up ;To raise, to lift, to support ;
'gyod	 verb-pres 	'gyod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To repent; to grieve for. To lament, relent (not only for bad, but also for good actions, when the latter are attended with disadvantages) ; To repent; to feel sorry; to befall of regret ; To mentally suffer later, on account of an action previously done ; To regret, to feel remorse, to feel sorry ;
'gyod	 verb-past 	'gyod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To repent; to grieve for. To lament, relent (not only for bad, but also for good actions, when the latter are attended with disadvantages) ; To repent; to feel sorry; to befall of regret ; To mentally suffer later, on account of an action previously done ; To regret, to feel remorse, to feel sorry ;
'gyod	 verb-fut 	'gyod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To repent; to grieve for. To lament, relent (not only for bad, but also for good actions, when the latter are attended with disadvantages) ; To repent; to feel sorry; to befall of regret ; To mentally suffer later, on account of an action previously done ; To regret, to feel remorse, to feel sorry ;
'grang	 verb-pres 	'grang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To satisfy with food; to satiate ; To be full (after meals) ; To be sated, satiated, to be full ;
'grangs	 verb-past 	'grang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To satisfy with food; to satiate ; To be full (after meals) ; To be sated, satiated, to be full ;
'grang	 verb-fut 	'grang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To satisfy with food; to satiate ; To be full (after meals) ; To be sated, satiated, to be full ;
'gran	 verb-pres 	'gran	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To vie with, contend with; to strive (for victory) ; To compete, to challenge ;To contest for victory ; To rival, to compete, to contest, to hold a test ;
'gran(d)	 verb-past 	'gran	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To vie with, contend with; to strive (for victory) ; To compete, to challenge ;To contest for victory ; To rival, to compete, to contest, to hold a test ;
'gran	 verb-fut 	'gran	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To vie with, contend with; to strive (for victory) ; To compete, to challenge ;To contest for victory ; To rival, to compete, to contest, to hold a test ;
'grams	 verb-pres 	'grams	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To spread over ;To be spread out, dispersed, scattered ; To pervade, to diffuse, to be agitated ; Compare gram
gram	 verb-past 	'grams	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To spread over ;To be spread out, dispersed, scattered ; To pervade, to diffuse, to be agitated ; Compare gram
'gram	 verb-fut 	'grams	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To spread over ;To be spread out, dispersed, scattered ; To pervade, to diffuse, to be agitated ; Compare gram
'gras	 verb-pres 	'gras	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To hate, to bear ill-will, to have spite against ; To have spite; to hate ; For the thought of fighting against an enemy to arise ; To come to hate, to dislike ; Related to noun dgra
'gras	 verb-past 	'gras	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To hate, to bear ill-will, to have spite against ; To have spite; to hate ; For the thought of fighting against an enemy to arise ; To come to hate, to dislike ; Related to noun dgra
'gras	 verb-fut 	'gras	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To hate, to bear ill-will, to have spite against ; To have spite; to hate ; For the thought of fighting against an enemy to arise ; To come to hate, to dislike ; Related to noun dgra
'grig	 verb-pres 	'grig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To suit, agree, correspond; to be right ; To be suitable; to be fitting; to be ok ; 1. To agree, accord, be in harmony. 2. To be appropriate, suitable ; 1. To suit, to be suitable. 2.  To make harmonious, to reconcile ;
'grigs	 verb-past 	'grig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To suit, agree, correspond; to be right ; To be suitable; to be fitting; to be ok ; 1. To agree, accord, be in harmony. 2. To be appropriate, suitable ; 1. To suit, to be suitable. 2.  To make harmonious, to reconcile ;
'grig	 verb-fut 	'grig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To suit, agree, correspond; to be right ; To be suitable; to be fitting; to be ok ; 1. To agree, accord, be in harmony. 2. To be appropriate, suitable ; 1. To suit, to be suitable. 2.  To make harmonious, to reconcile ;
'grib	 verb-pres 	'grib	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To grow dim; to get dark (Cs.) 2. To grow less, to decrease, to be diminished, to decay ; To be diminished; to decay; to become smaller; to be reduced ; To become smaller, to become fewer ; 1. To decrease, to decline. 2. To grow dim, to be covered to set, to disappear ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 73) ."]}
grib	 verb-past 	'grib	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To grow dim; to get dark (Cs.) 2. To grow less, to decrease, to be diminished, to decay ; To be diminished; to decay; to become smaller; to be reduced ; To become smaller, to become fewer ; 1. To decrease, to decline. 2. To grow dim, to be covered to set, to disappear ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 73) ."]}
'grib	 verb-fut 	'grib	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To grow dim; to get dark (Cs.) 2. To grow less, to decrease, to be diminished, to decay ; To be diminished; to decay; to become smaller; to be reduced ; To become smaller, to become fewer ; 1. To decrease, to decline. 2. To grow dim, to be covered to set, to disappear ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 73) ."]}
'grim	 verb-pres 	'grim	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To march about, perambulate; to rove or stroll about; walk round ; To wander from place to place; to travel widely, to advance through monastic life, &c. ; 1. To go to many places. 2. To link from one thing to another ; To travel, to journey, to wander, to undergo, to attend ;
'grims	 verb-past 	'grim	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To march about, perambulate; to rove or stroll about; walk round ; To wander from place to place; to travel widely, to advance through monastic life, &c. ; 1. To go to many places. 2. To link from one thing to another ; To travel, to journey, to wander, to undergo, to attend ;
'grim	 verb-fut 	'grim	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To march about, perambulate; to rove or stroll about; walk round ; To wander from place to place; to travel widely, to advance through monastic life, &c. ; 1. To go to many places. 2. To link from one thing to another ; To travel, to journey, to wander, to undergo, to attend ;
'gril	 verb-pres 	'gril	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be twisted or wrapped round, to be collected, concentrated; to flock or crowd together. 2. To be turned, rounded, made circular or cylindrical. 3. To fall, drop down (for ; To roll up; to snowball ; 1. To twist, turn. 2. (according to some ; 1. To be rolled up, to recoil, to be condensed, to be assembled. 2. To roll down ; Root given as ril (Róna-Tas 1978: 359), (Beyer 1992: 73).
gril	 verb-past 	'gril	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be twisted or wrapped round, to be collected, concentrated; to flock or crowd together. 2. To be turned, rounded, made circular or cylindrical. 3. To fall, drop down (for ; To roll up; to snowball ; 1. To twist, turn. 2. (according to some ; 1. To be rolled up, to recoil, to be condensed, to be assembled. 2. To roll down ; Root given as ril (Róna-Tas 1978: 359), (Beyer 1992: 73).
'gril	 verb-fut 	'gril	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be twisted or wrapped round, to be collected, concentrated; to flock or crowd together. 2. To be turned, rounded, made circular or cylindrical. 3. To fall, drop down (for ; To roll up; to snowball ; 1. To twist, turn. 2. (according to some ; 1. To be rolled up, to recoil, to be condensed, to be assembled. 2. To roll down ; Root given as ril (Róna-Tas 1978: 359), (Beyer 1992: 73).
'grub	 verb-pres 	'grub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (Situ 69) To be accomplished; to be made ready, to be finished ; To be accomplished ; 1. To become, arise. 2. To exist, stay. 3. To know, understand ; To become accomplished, to be made, to be fulfilled, to be completed ;
grub	 verb-past 	'grub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (Situ 69) To be accomplished; to be made ready, to be finished ; To be accomplished ; 1. To become, arise. 2. To exist, stay. 3. To know, understand ; To become accomplished, to be made, to be fulfilled, to be completed ;
'grub	 verb-fut 	'grub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (Situ 69) To be accomplished; to be made ready, to be finished ; To be accomplished ; 1. To become, arise. 2. To exist, stay. 3. To know, understand ; To become accomplished, to be made, to be fulfilled, to be completed ;
'grum	 verb-pres 	'grum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To pinch, nip off (the point of a thing); to cut off; to prime, lop, clip the wings (Cs.) ; To be broken or cracked ; To break into many pieces ; 1. To be broken, to be damaged. 2. To be exhausted, to be worn out ;
grums	 verb-past 	'grum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To pinch, nip off (the point of a thing); to cut off; to prime, lop, clip the wings (Cs.) ; To be broken or cracked ; To break into many pieces ; 1. To be broken, to be damaged. 2. To be exhausted, to be worn out ;
'grum	 verb-fut 	'grum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To pinch, nip off (the point of a thing); to cut off; to prime, lop, clip the wings (Cs.) ; To be broken or cracked ; To break into many pieces ; 1. To be broken, to be damaged. 2. To be exhausted, to be worn out ;
'grul	 verb-pres 	'grul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To walk; to pass; to ravel. 2. Fig. To walk, to live, act, or behave. 3. To pass as good; to be current (of coins) ; To journey; to go ;To travel, to tour, to take a trip ;
'grul(d)	 verb-past 	'grul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To walk; to pass; to ravel. 2. Fig. To walk, to live, act, or behave. 3. To pass as good; to be current (of coins) ; To journey; to go ;To travel, to tour, to take a trip ;
'grul	 verb-fut 	'grul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To walk; to pass; to ravel. 2. Fig. To walk, to live, act, or behave. 3. To pass as good; to be current (of coins) ; To journey; to go ;To travel, to tour, to take a trip ;
'grus	 verb-pres 	'grus	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bestow pains upon a thing ; To persevere, to be diligent ;
'grus	 verb-past 	'grus	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bestow pains upon a thing ; To persevere, to be diligent ;
'grus	 verb-fut 	'grus	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bestow pains upon a thing ; To persevere, to be diligent ;
'gre	 verb-pres 	'gre	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To roll one's self ; To apply a same reasoning; to adjust one's sleeping position ;1. To turn over the body while lying down. 2. To use previous reasoning to consider an new topic ; 1. To be collated, to be juxtaposed, to be mixed. 2. To toss and turn. 3. (archaic) To move ;
'gres	 verb-past 	'gre	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To roll one's self ; To apply a same reasoning; to adjust one's sleeping position ;1. To turn over the body while lying down. 2. To use previous reasoning to consider an new topic ; 1. To be collated, to be juxtaposed, to be mixed. 2. To toss and turn. 3. (archaic) To move ;
'gre	 verb-fut 	'gre	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To roll one's self ; To apply a same reasoning; to adjust one's sleeping position ;1. To turn over the body while lying down. 2. To use previous reasoning to consider an new topic ; 1. To be collated, to be juxtaposed, to be mixed. 2. To toss and turn. 3. (archaic) To move ;
'greng	 verb-pres 	'greng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To stand ; To rise up; to get up ; To stand up, to rise up ;
'grengs	 verb-past 	'greng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To stand ; To rise up; to get up ; To stand up, to rise up ;
'greng	 verb-fut 	'greng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To stand ; To rise up; to get up ; To stand up, to rise up ;
'grem	 verb-pres 	'grem	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To spread (as of grain, for drying) ; To scatter; to spread out ; To spread, to lay out many things ; To be spread out, to lay out, to distribute ;
bkram	 verb-past 	'grem	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To spread (as of grain, for drying) ; To scatter; to spread out ; To spread, to lay out many things ; To be spread out, to lay out, to distribute ;
dgram	 verb-fut 	'grem	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To spread (as of grain, for drying) ; To scatter; to spread out ; To spread, to lay out many things ; To be spread out, to lay out, to distribute ;
'grem	 verb-pres 	'grem	  
'grems	 verb-past 	'grem	  
'grem	 verb-fut 	'grem	  
'grel	 verb-pres 	'grel	Transitive:  Voluntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To classify; to elucidate meaning; to explain in detail ; To comment on, to elucidate the difficult points of a text ;
bkral(d)	 verb-past 	'grel	Transitive:  Voluntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To classify; to elucidate meaning; to explain in detail ; To comment on, to elucidate the difficult points of a text ;
dgrol	 verb-fut 	'grel	Transitive:  Voluntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To classify; to elucidate meaning; to explain in detail ; To comment on, to elucidate the difficult points of a text ;
'grel	 verb-pres 	'grel	  
'grel	 verb-past 	'grel	  
	 verb-fut 	'grel	  
'gro	 verb-pres 	'gro	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To go, to live ; To go, to move ;1. To go, proceed,  set off, move. 2. To be acceptable [to the senses]. 3. To hold, to contain. 4. To become. 5. To be used for ; Root given as 'gro < ' + TB *ga + *ro, *ro < TB *ra 'to come' (Delancey 1908: 233).
song	 verb-past 	'gro	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To go, to live ; To go, to move ;1. To go, proceed,  set off, move. 2. To be acceptable [to the senses]. 3. To hold, to contain. 4. To become. 5. To be used for ; Root given as 'gro < ' + TB *ga + *ro, *ro < TB *ra 'to come' (Delancey 1908: 233).
'gro	 verb-fut 	'gro	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To go, to live ; To go, to move ;1. To go, proceed,  set off, move. 2. To be acceptable [to the senses]. 3. To hold, to contain. 4. To become. 5. To be used for ; Root given as 'gro < ' + TB *ga + *ro, *ro < TB *ra 'to come' (Delancey 1908: 233).
'grogs	 verb-pres 	'grogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To associate with; to keep company, to be in the company of; to accompnay ; To be accompanied by; to associate with; to stay together ; To act with mutual connection, to co-habitate, to co-operate ; To accompany, to associate with ; Perhaps to be compared with rogs
'grogs	 verb-past 	'grogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To associate with; to keep company, to be in the company of; to accompnay ; To be accompanied by; to associate with; to stay together ; To act with mutual connection, to co-habitate, to co-operate ; To accompany, to associate with ; Perhaps to be compared with rogs
'grogs	 verb-fut 	'grogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To associate with; to keep company, to be in the company of; to accompnay ; To be accompanied by; to associate with; to stay together ; To act with mutual connection, to co-habitate, to co-operate ; To accompany, to associate with ; Perhaps to be compared with rogs
'grong	 verb-pres 	'grongs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To die ;(honorific) To die; Root given as 'g- ro - ng (Hahn 1999: 124).
'grong	 verb-past 	'grongs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To die ;(honorific) To die; Root given as 'g- ro - ng (Hahn 1999: 124).
'grong	 verb-fut 	'grongs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To die ;(honorific) To die; Root given as 'g- ro - ng (Hahn 1999: 124).
'grol	 verb-pres 	'grol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To unravel, to make loose, to set free, to unfasten ; To loosen; to set free from bondage ;1. (for a knot, tied rope &c.) To unravel, unwind. 2. (for a higher ranking [person]) To allow, approve ;1. To untie, to unravel, to liberate, to release, to unfasten. 2. To comment on, to elucidate ;
bkrol	 verb-past 	'grol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To unravel, to make loose, to set free, to unfasten ; To loosen; to set free from bondage ;1. (for a knot, tied rope &c.) To unravel, unwind. 2. (for a higher ranking [person]) To allow, approve ;1. To untie, to unravel, to liberate, to release, to unfasten. 2. To comment on, to elucidate ;
dgrol	 verb-fut 	'grol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To unravel, to make loose, to set free, to unfasten ; To loosen; to set free from bondage ;1. (for a knot, tied rope &c.) To unravel, unwind. 2. (for a higher ranking [person]) To allow, approve ;1. To untie, to unravel, to liberate, to release, to unfasten. 2. To comment on, to elucidate ;
rga	 verb-pres 	rga	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be old, aged. 2. To go down, to set (of the sun) (Jä) ; To become old; to become physically weak, to become lean and thin ; 1. (for men or cattle) To age. 2. To become old, for time to pass ; To age, to grow old ; Root given as rga < *gra (Beyer 1992: 85 n.16).
rgas	 verb-past 	rga	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be old, aged. 2. To go down, to set (of the sun) (Jä) ; To become old; to become physically weak, to become lean and thin ; 1. (for men or cattle) To age. 2. To become old, for time to pass ; To age, to grow old ; Root given as rga < *gra (Beyer 1992: 85 n.16).
rga	 verb-fut 	rga	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be old, aged. 2. To go down, to set (of the sun) (Jä) ; To become old; to become physically weak, to become lean and thin ; 1. (for men or cattle) To age. 2. To become old, for time to pass ; To age, to grow old ; Root given as rga < *gra (Beyer 1992: 85 n.16).
rgol	 verb-pres 	rgal	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To ford (a river), to travel through, to pass over, to surmount a pass ; To cross the river, to cross a limit, to take a bath ; To cross (a river, valley, pass). 2. To pass, exceed a measure. 3. To go into water ; To cross, to traverse, to go beyond, to exceed ; Root given as rgal < *gral (Beyer 1992: 85).
brgal(d)	 verb-past 	rgal	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To ford (a river), to travel through, to pass over, to surmount a pass ; To cross the river, to cross a limit, to take a bath ; To cross (a river, valley, pass). 2. To pass, exceed a measure. 3. To go into water ; To cross, to traverse, to go beyond, to exceed ; Root given as rgal < *gral (Beyer 1992: 85).
brgal	 verb-fut 	rgal	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To ford (a river), to travel through, to pass over, to surmount a pass ; To cross the river, to cross a limit, to take a bath ; To cross (a river, valley, pass). 2. To pass, exceed a measure. 3. To go into water ; To cross, to traverse, to go beyond, to exceed ; Root given as rgal < *gral (Beyer 1992: 85).
rgud	 verb-pres 	rgud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To decline, to sink, grow fail ; To decay; to decline; to become weak or smaller ; To break down (of power, ability &c. ) ; To decline, to deteriorate ;
rgud	 verb-past 	rgud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To decline, to sink, grow fail ; To decay; to decline; to become weak or smaller ; To break down (of power, ability &c. ) ; To decline, to deteriorate ;
rgud	 verb-fut 	rgud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To decline, to sink, grow fail ; To decay; to decline; to become weak or smaller ; To break down (of power, ability &c. ) ; To decline, to deteriorate ;
rgol	 verb-pres 	rgol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To dispute, combat, fight, make controversy ; To find out by debating, to debate ; 1. To fight. 2. To negate ; To oppose, to attack, to assault, to resist ; Whether KYN
brgal(d)	 verb-past 	rgol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To dispute, combat, fight, make controversy ; To find out by debating, to debate ; 1. To fight. 2. To negate ; To oppose, to attack, to assault, to resist ; Whether KYN
brgal	 verb-fut 	rgol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To dispute, combat, fight, make controversy ; To find out by debating, to debate ; 1. To fight. 2. To negate ; To oppose, to attack, to assault, to resist ; Whether KYN
rgya	 verb-pres 	rgya	Intransitive: Involuntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To increase, enlarge, flourish ; To increase, to multiply ; To increase, to swell, to grow larger, to develop ;
rgyas	 verb-past 	rgya	Intransitive: Involuntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To increase, enlarge, flourish ; To increase, to multiply ; To increase, to swell, to grow larger, to develop ;
rgya	 verb-fut 	rgya	Intransitive: Involuntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To increase, enlarge, flourish ; To increase, to multiply ; To increase, to swell, to grow larger, to develop ;
rgya	 verb-pres 	rgya	    To be useful and of service, to exert oneself ;
	 verb-past 	rgya	    To be useful and of service, to exert oneself ;
	 verb-fut 	rgya	    To be useful and of service, to exert oneself ;
rgyob	 verb-pres 	rgyag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To throw, to fling; to hit, to beat, to strike ; The meaning of this verb differs according to context, e.g. to build; to shoot; to reply; to mark, etc. ;1. i. To strike, to hit. ii. A house, wall etc. to make new. iii. To propel to cast 2. In the colloquial language there are many definitions, used like ;To project, propel away, send off; to enter, place inside; to do; to make ; Root given as rgyab < *gryab (Beyer 1992: 4).
brgyab	 verb-past 	rgyag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To throw, to fling; to hit, to beat, to strike ; The meaning of this verb differs according to context, e.g. to build; to shoot; to reply; to mark, etc. ;1. i. To strike, to hit. ii. A house, wall etc. to make new. iii. To propel to cast 2. In the colloquial language there are many definitions, used like ;To project, propel away, send off; to enter, place inside; to do; to make ; Root given as rgyab < *gryab (Beyer 1992: 4).
brgyab	 verb-fut 	rgyag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To throw, to fling; to hit, to beat, to strike ; The meaning of this verb differs according to context, e.g. to build; to shoot; to reply; to mark, etc. ;1. i. To strike, to hit. ii. A house, wall etc. to make new. iii. To propel to cast 2. In the colloquial language there are many definitions, used like ;To project, propel away, send off; to enter, place inside; to do; to make ; Root given as rgyab < *gryab (Beyer 1992: 4).
rgyag	 verb-pres 	rgyag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To rise, to emit ;
brgyab	 verb-past 	rgyag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To rise, to emit ;
rgyag	 verb-fut 	rgyag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To rise, to emit ;
rgyags	 verb-pres 	rgyags	Intransitive: Voluntary:   To use provisions on a journey ; To give a bribe of wealth ; To be full, to be satisfied, to be satiated ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["LZ"]}
brgyags	 verb-past 	rgyags	Intransitive: Voluntary:   To use provisions on a journey ; To give a bribe of wealth ; To be full, to be satisfied, to be satiated ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["LZ"]}
brgyag	 verb-fut 	rgyags	Intransitive: Voluntary:   To use provisions on a journey ; To give a bribe of wealth ; To be full, to be satisfied, to be satiated ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["LZ"]}
rgyags	 verb-pres 	rgyags	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be self satisfied, to be haughty, priggish ; To be self satisfied ;
rgyags	 verb-past 	rgyags	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be self satisfied, to be haughty, priggish ; To be self satisfied ;
rgyags	 verb-fut 	rgyags	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be self satisfied, to be haughty, priggish ; To be self satisfied ;
rgyang	 verb-pres 	rgyang	   To stretch, extend, stretch forth (one's hands to a person), put out (the tongue); spread; distend (the wings, a curtain) ; To cause to be delayed; to extend ; Root given as rgyang < *gryang (Beyer 1992: 85).
brgyangs	 verb-past 	rgyang	   To stretch, extend, stretch forth (one's hands to a person), put out (the tongue); spread; distend (the wings, a curtain) ; To cause to be delayed; to extend ; Root given as rgyang < *gryang (Beyer 1992: 85).
brgyang	 verb-fut 	rgyang	   To stretch, extend, stretch forth (one's hands to a person), put out (the tongue); spread; distend (the wings, a curtain) ; To cause to be delayed; to extend ; Root given as rgyang < *gryang (Beyer 1992: 85).
rgyan	 verb-pres 	rgyan	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To ornament; to beautify or to decorate, to wear or to put on ; To adorn, ornament ; To adorn, ornament, to decorate ;
brgyan(d)	 verb-past 	rgyan	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To ornament; to beautify or to decorate, to wear or to put on ; To adorn, ornament ; To adorn, ornament, to decorate ;
brgyan	 verb-fut 	rgyan	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To ornament; to beautify or to decorate, to wear or to put on ; To adorn, ornament ; To adorn, ornament, to decorate ;
rgyal	 verb-pres 	rgyal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be victorious; to win; to conquer; to subdue, to overpower ; To win, conquer, subdue ; 1. To remain having defeated an opposing side or enemy. 2. To be superior than another ; To be victorious, to conquer ;
rgyal(d)	 verb-past 	rgyal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be victorious; to win; to conquer; to subdue, to overpower ; To win, conquer, subdue ; 1. To remain having defeated an opposing side or enemy. 2. To be superior than another ; To be victorious, to conquer ;
rgyal	 verb-fut 	rgyal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be victorious; to win; to conquer; to subdue, to overpower ; To win, conquer, subdue ; 1. To remain having defeated an opposing side or enemy. 2. To be superior than another ; To be victorious, to conquer ;
rgyu	 verb-pres 	rgyu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To go, walk, move, wander, range (this verb is generally used instead of ; To go; to move ; To go ;To move, to roam, to go; Compare 'gyu
rgyu	 verb-past 	rgyu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To go, walk, move, wander, range (this verb is generally used instead of ; To go; to move ; To go ;To move, to roam, to go; Compare 'gyu
rgyu	 verb-fut 	rgyu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To go, walk, move, wander, range (this verb is generally used instead of ; To go; to move ; To go ;To move, to roam, to go; Compare 'gyu
rgyug	 verb-pres 	rgyug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To run; to race ; 1. To run. 2. To flow. 3. To sell, engage in commerce ;
rgyug	 verb-past 	rgyug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To run; to race ; 1. To run. 2. To flow. 3. To sell, engage in commerce ;
rgyug	 verb-fut 	rgyug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To run; to race ; 1. To run. 2. To flow. 3. To sell, engage in commerce ;
rgyug	 verb-pres 	rgyug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To run ; To run a race; to make one run ; To race ;
brgyugs	 verb-past 	rgyug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To run ; To run a race; to make one run ; To race ;
brgyug	 verb-fut 	rgyug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To run ; To run a race; to make one run ; To race ;
rgyugs	 verb-pres 	rgyugs	   To serve; to serve drink ;
rgyugs	 verb-past 	rgyugs	   To serve; to serve drink ;
rgyugs	 verb-fut 	rgyugs	   To serve; to serve drink ;
rgyung	 verb-pres 	rgyung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To wash the stomach (as with cleansing medicine) ;
rgyungs	 verb-past 	rgyung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To wash the stomach (as with cleansing medicine) ;
rgyung	 verb-fut 	rgyung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To wash the stomach (as with cleansing medicine) ;
rgyud	 verb-pres 	rgyud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To tie, fasten, connect together ; To make a string of, to stick together ; To string; to put in line ; To put a rope or thread through a hole ; To thread, to string;
brgyus	 verb-past 	rgyud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To tie, fasten, connect together ; To make a string of, to stick together ; To string; to put in line ; To put a rope or thread through a hole ; To thread, to string;
brgyu	 verb-fut 	rgyud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To tie, fasten, connect together ; To make a string of, to stick together ; To string; to put in line ; To put a rope or thread through a hole ; To thread, to string;
rgyo	 verb-pres 	rgyo	 Voluntary:   To have sexual intercourse; (acc. to Cs.) To deflower, ravish ; To deflower; to have sexual intercourse ; To have sexual intercourse ;(archaic) To have sexual intercourse ;
brgyos	 verb-past 	rgyo	 Voluntary:   To have sexual intercourse; (acc. to Cs.) To deflower, ravish ; To deflower; to have sexual intercourse ; To have sexual intercourse ;(archaic) To have sexual intercourse ;
brgyo	 verb-fut 	rgyo	 Voluntary:   To have sexual intercourse; (acc. to Cs.) To deflower, ravish ; To deflower; to have sexual intercourse ; To have sexual intercourse ;(archaic) To have sexual intercourse ;
rgyong	 verb-pres 	rgyong	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To extend, stretch forth, distend ; To extend, stretch out, set out, arrange ; To fill up, to stretch ;1. To stretch, to extend, to distend. 2. To fill up ; Root given as *rgyang < *gryang (Coblin 1986).
brgyangs	 verb-past 	rgyong	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To extend, stretch forth, distend ; To extend, stretch out, set out, arrange ; To fill up, to stretch ;1. To stretch, to extend, to distend. 2. To fill up ; Root given as *rgyang < *gryang (Coblin 1986).
brgyang	 verb-fut 	rgyong	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To extend, stretch forth, distend ; To extend, stretch out, set out, arrange ; To fill up, to stretch ;1. To stretch, to extend, to distend. 2. To fill up ; Root given as *rgyang < *gryang (Coblin 1986).
rgyor	 verb-pres 	rgyor	   To kill ;
	 verb-past 	rgyor	   To kill ;
	 verb-fut 	rgyor	   To kill ;
sgag	 verb-pres 	sgag	Transitive: Voluntary:   To ravish, to copulate; to embrace in sexual union ; To bind, to tie, to fasten ;
bsgags	 verb-past 	sgag	Transitive: Voluntary:   To ravish, to copulate; to embrace in sexual union ; To bind, to tie, to fasten ;
bsgag	 verb-fut 	sgag	Transitive: Voluntary:   To ravish, to copulate; to embrace in sexual union ; To bind, to tie, to fasten ;
sgang	 verb-pres 	sgang	 Voluntary:   To grow, become full (Cs.) ; To cause to fill ; Compare kheng
bsgang	 verb-past 	sgang	 Voluntary:   To grow, become full (Cs.) ; To cause to fill ; Compare kheng
bsgang	 verb-fut 	sgang	 Voluntary:   To grow, become full (Cs.) ; To cause to fill ; Compare kheng
sgab	 verb-pres 	sgab	Transitive: Voluntary:   To cover ; To cause to cover or to spread over; to cause to wear or patch ;1. To cover, to conceal. 2. To protect ; Compare the noun khebs
bsgabs	 verb-past 	sgab	Transitive: Voluntary:   To cover ; To cause to cover or to spread over; to cause to wear or patch ;1. To cover, to conceal. 2. To protect ; Compare the noun khebs
bsgab	 verb-fut 	sgab	Transitive: Voluntary:   To cover ; To cause to cover or to spread over; to cause to wear or patch ;1. To cover, to conceal. 2. To protect ; Compare the noun khebs
sgar	 verb-pres 	sgar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To dip fry; to solidify in oil ; 1. To condense, solidify. 2. To attach, to fit, to insert ;
bsgar(d)	 verb-past 	sgar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To dip fry; to solidify in oil ; 1. To condense, solidify. 2. To attach, to fit, to insert ;
bsgar	 verb-fut 	sgar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To dip fry; to solidify in oil ; 1. To condense, solidify. 2. To attach, to fit, to insert ;
sgal	 verb-pres 	sgal	   To carry a load (on one's back), to cause a load to be carried on the back of a beast of burden ; Compare the noun khal
	 verb-past 	sgal	   To carry a load (on one's back), to cause a load to be carried on the back of a beast of burden ; Compare the noun khal
	 verb-fut 	sgal	   To carry a load (on one's back), to cause a load to be carried on the back of a beast of burden ; Compare the noun khal
sgug	 verb-pres 	sgug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To wait ; To wait for ; This word may be a causative formed on a stem *gug. Perhaps it is cognate to 'gugs pa
bsgugs	 verb-past 	sgug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To wait ; To wait for ; This word may be a causative formed on a stem *gug. Perhaps it is cognate to 'gugs pa
bsgug	 verb-fut 	sgug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To wait ; To wait for ; This word may be a causative formed on a stem *gug. Perhaps it is cognate to 'gugs pa
sgur	 verb-pres 	sgur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To become afraid ; To cause to bow down, to bend down ; (Of the body) To bend forward ; To bend, to bend down ;
bsgur(d)	 verb-past 	sgur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To become afraid ; To cause to bow down, to bend down ; (Of the body) To bend forward ; To bend, to bend down ;
sgur	 verb-fut 	sgur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To become afraid ; To cause to bow down, to bend down ; (Of the body) To bend forward ; To bend, to bend down ;
sgul	 verb-pres 	sgul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To move, agitate, put in motion ; To shake; to cause to move ; 1. To make something move, or shake. 2. To cause a transformation ;To move, to shake, to agitate ;
bsgul(d)	 verb-past 	sgul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To move, agitate, put in motion ; To shake; to cause to move ; 1. To make something move, or shake. 2. To cause a transformation ;To move, to shake, to agitate ;
bsgul	 verb-fut 	sgul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To move, agitate, put in motion ; To shake; to cause to move ; 1. To make something move, or shake. 2. To cause a transformation ;To move, to shake, to agitate ;
sgeg	 verb-pres 	sgeg	   To brag, boast (Cs.) ; To be charming, graceful ;
	 verb-past 	sgeg	   To brag, boast (Cs.) ; To be charming, graceful ;
	 verb-fut 	sgeg	   To brag, boast (Cs.) ; To be charming, graceful ;
sgo	 verb-pres 	sgo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (obsolete) To say; to speak, (mostly) to bid, to order ; To order; to cause to be predisposed; to be habituated ; 1. To make one thing to stick to or contaminate another thing. 2. To teach to another ; 1. To command, to order, to exhort, to instruct. 2. To be contaminated, to be polluted ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
bsgos	 verb-past 	sgo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (obsolete) To say; to speak, (mostly) to bid, to order ; To order; to cause to be predisposed; to be habituated ; 1. To make one thing to stick to or contaminate another thing. 2. To teach to another ; 1. To command, to order, to exhort, to instruct. 2. To be contaminated, to be polluted ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
bsgo	 verb-fut 	sgo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (obsolete) To say; to speak, (mostly) to bid, to order ; To order; to cause to be predisposed; to be habituated ; 1. To make one thing to stick to or contaminate another thing. 2. To teach to another ; 1. To command, to order, to exhort, to instruct. 2. To be contaminated, to be polluted ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
sgog	 verb-pres 	sgog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make one swear (Cs.) ; To make one swear; to cause to take an oath ; 1. To bind tightly. 2. To restrict, prohibit. 3. To coerce, force, compel ; To take an oath, to swear an oath ;
bsgags	 verb-past 	sgog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make one swear (Cs.) ; To make one swear; to cause to take an oath ; 1. To bind tightly. 2. To restrict, prohibit. 3. To coerce, force, compel ; To take an oath, to swear an oath ;
bsgag	 verb-fut 	sgog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make one swear (Cs.) ; To make one swear; to cause to take an oath ; 1. To bind tightly. 2. To restrict, prohibit. 3. To coerce, force, compel ; To take an oath, to swear an oath ;
sgong	 verb-pres 	sgong	Transitive: Voluntary:   To make in tea balls to eat [sic], to make round balls of dough (Cs.). ; To make a globular mass: to heap; to make paste for food ; To make into a ball (barley flower &c.) ;To make into a ball ;
bsgangs	 verb-past 	sgong	Transitive: Voluntary:   To make in tea balls to eat [sic], to make round balls of dough (Cs.). ; To make a globular mass: to heap; to make paste for food ; To make into a ball (barley flower &c.) ;To make into a ball ;
bsgang	 verb-fut 	sgong	Transitive: Voluntary:   To make in tea balls to eat [sic], to make round balls of dough (Cs.). ; To make a globular mass: to heap; to make paste for food ; To make into a ball (barley flower &c.) ;To make into a ball ;
sgong	 verb-pres 	sgong	Transitive: Voluntary:   To load firewood &c. on to a fire ; (dialect) To heap fuel onto a fire ;
sgong	 verb-past 	sgong	Transitive: Voluntary:   To load firewood &c. on to a fire ; (dialect) To heap fuel onto a fire ;
sgong	 verb-fut 	sgong	Transitive: Voluntary:   To load firewood &c. on to a fire ; (dialect) To heap fuel onto a fire ;
sgong	 verb-pres 	sgongs	   To hide; to conceal (a thing) (Sch.) ;
	 verb-past 	sgongs	   To hide; to conceal (a thing) (Sch.) ;
	 verb-fut 	sgongs	   To hide; to conceal (a thing) (Sch.) ;
sgom	 verb-pres 	sgom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. (originally) To fancy, imagine. 2.  (now, with accusative and dative) To meditate, contemplate systematically. 3. (with accusative and terminative, or with double accusative) To have; to entertain; to reproduce (in one's mind) ; To meditate, to practice meditation; to cultivate in meditation ;To bring to memory again and again in the mind ; To meditate ;
bsgoms	 verb-past 	sgom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. (originally) To fancy, imagine. 2.  (now, with accusative and dative) To meditate, contemplate systematically. 3. (with accusative and terminative, or with double accusative) To have; to entertain; to reproduce (in one's mind) ; To meditate, to practice meditation; to cultivate in meditation ;To bring to memory again and again in the mind ; To meditate ;
bsgom	 verb-fut 	sgom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. (originally) To fancy, imagine. 2.  (now, with accusative and dative) To meditate, contemplate systematically. 3. (with accusative and terminative, or with double accusative) To have; to entertain; to reproduce (in one's mind) ; To meditate, to practice meditation; to cultivate in meditation ;To bring to memory again and again in the mind ; To meditate ;
sgor	 verb-pres 	sgor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To boil down; to condense by boiling. 2. To turn on a lathe (Jä) ; 1. To make syrup by boiling down tree sap. 2. (dialect) To invert a vessel ;
bsgar(d)	 verb-past 	sgor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To boil down; to condense by boiling. 2. To turn on a lathe (Jä) ; 1. To make syrup by boiling down tree sap. 2. (dialect) To invert a vessel ;
bsgar	 verb-fut 	sgor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To boil down; to condense by boiling. 2. To turn on a lathe (Jä) ; 1. To make syrup by boiling down tree sap. 2. (dialect) To invert a vessel ;
sgyang	 verb-pres 	sgyang	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cause a delay ; Compare 'gyangs
bsgyangs	 verb-past 	sgyang	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cause a delay ; Compare 'gyangs
bsgyang	 verb-fut 	sgyang	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cause a delay ; Compare 'gyangs
sgying	 verb-pres 	sgying	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To yawn, to gape ; To display emotion through physical posture ; To yawn and to stretch out the limbs when tired. 2. To straighten. 3. To leap, jump, to be erect. 1. To sigh, to stretch the limbs. 2. To straighten. 3. To leap, to  jump, to act haughtily ;
bsgyings	 verb-past 	sgying	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To yawn, to gape ; To display emotion through physical posture ; To yawn and to stretch out the limbs when tired. 2. To straighten. 3. To leap, jump, to be erect. 1. To sigh, to stretch the limbs. 2. To straighten. 3. To leap, to  jump, to act haughtily ;
bsgying	 verb-fut 	sgying	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To yawn, to gape ; To display emotion through physical posture ; To yawn and to stretch out the limbs when tired. 2. To straighten. 3. To leap, jump, to be erect. 1. To sigh, to stretch the limbs. 2. To straighten. 3. To leap, to  jump, to act haughtily ;
sgyur	 verb-pres 	sgyur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To transform, alter, change, to correct; translate; revise. 2. To cast aside; dissuade, divert; to turn; to cause to turn. 3. To govern, steer, control ;  To multiply, increase ; To translate; to change; to transform; to multiply ; 1. To change, transform (method, essence, characteristic, direction, &c.). 2. To translate. 3. To take control, power. 4. To make various kinds of sound appear (from an instrument &c.). 5. To multiply. 6. To show various styles of body (as in dance &c.). 7. To drive away, expel, repel, reverse ;1. To change, to transform, to alter. 2. To translate, to interpret. 3. (math) To multiply, times, fold ;
bsgyur(d)	 verb-past 	sgyur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To transform, alter, change, to correct; translate; revise. 2. To cast aside; dissuade, divert; to turn; to cause to turn. 3. To govern, steer, control ;  To multiply, increase ; To translate; to change; to transform; to multiply ; 1. To change, transform (method, essence, characteristic, direction, &c.). 2. To translate. 3. To take control, power. 4. To make various kinds of sound appear (from an instrument &c.). 5. To multiply. 6. To show various styles of body (as in dance &c.). 7. To drive away, expel, repel, reverse ;1. To change, to transform, to alter. 2. To translate, to interpret. 3. (math) To multiply, times, fold ;
bsgyur	 verb-fut 	sgyur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To transform, alter, change, to correct; translate; revise. 2. To cast aside; dissuade, divert; to turn; to cause to turn. 3. To govern, steer, control ;  To multiply, increase ; To translate; to change; to transform; to multiply ; 1. To change, transform (method, essence, characteristic, direction, &c.). 2. To translate. 3. To take control, power. 4. To make various kinds of sound appear (from an instrument &c.). 5. To multiply. 6. To show various styles of body (as in dance &c.). 7. To drive away, expel, repel, reverse ;1. To change, to transform, to alter. 2. To translate, to interpret. 3. (math) To multiply, times, fold ;
sgyel	 verb-pres 	sgyel	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To throw down, to overturn, to lay or put down (a bottle, a book); to thwart (the charm of an enemy); to kill (Jä) ; To cause to fall down; to cause to break down, to overturn ; To cause to a person or upright thing to lie horizontally ; To cause to fall down, to bring down to overthrow, to thwart, to be thrown down ; Compare dgyel
bsgyel(d)	 verb-past 	sgyel	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To throw down, to overturn, to lay or put down (a bottle, a book); to thwart (the charm of an enemy); to kill (Jä) ; To cause to fall down; to cause to break down, to overturn ; To cause to a person or upright thing to lie horizontally ; To cause to fall down, to bring down to overthrow, to thwart, to be thrown down ; Compare dgyel
bsgyel	 verb-fut 	sgyel	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To throw down, to overturn, to lay or put down (a bottle, a book); to thwart (the charm of an enemy); to kill (Jä) ; To cause to fall down; to cause to break down, to overturn ; To cause to a person or upright thing to lie horizontally ; To cause to fall down, to bring down to overthrow, to thwart, to be thrown down ; Compare dgyel
sgyong	 verb-pres 	sgyong	   1. To fill, to stuff (a sausage). 2. (colloquial in West) to put into (the pocket) ; Perhaps originally = sgong
bsgyongs	 verb-past 	sgyong	   1. To fill, to stuff (a sausage). 2. (colloquial in West) to put into (the pocket) ; Perhaps originally = sgong
bsgyong	 verb-fut 	sgyong	   1. To fill, to stuff (a sausage). 2. (colloquial in West) to put into (the pocket) ; Perhaps originally = sgong
sgral	 verb-pres 	sgral	   1. To cut into small pieces, viz. the picture of an enemy one wishes to destroy (Jä). 2. To pass over or travel upon a river or sea ;
	 verb-past 	sgral	   1. To cut into small pieces, viz. the picture of an enemy one wishes to destroy (Jä). 2. To pass over or travel upon a river or sea ;
	 verb-fut 	sgral	   1. To cut into small pieces, viz. the picture of an enemy one wishes to destroy (Jä). 2. To pass over or travel upon a river or sea ;
sgrig	 verb-pres 	sgrig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To arrange in order or row, to lay or put in order, to arrange, adjust; to put or fit together; to join (the separate parts), to compile (books), to stitch close [sic](books etc.) ; To put in order; to arrange or to rectify ; 1. To arrange in a certain plain, order. 2. To collect in one place. 3. To mutually agree, be in one house ;1. To arrange, to put in order, to align. 2. To compile, to collect, to edit, to assemble, to join together ;
bsgrigs	 verb-past 	sgrig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To arrange in order or row, to lay or put in order, to arrange, adjust; to put or fit together; to join (the separate parts), to compile (books), to stitch close [sic](books etc.) ; To put in order; to arrange or to rectify ; 1. To arrange in a certain plain, order. 2. To collect in one place. 3. To mutually agree, be in one house ;1. To arrange, to put in order, to align. 2. To compile, to collect, to edit, to assemble, to join together ;
bsgrig	 verb-fut 	sgrig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To arrange in order or row, to lay or put in order, to arrange, adjust; to put or fit together; to join (the separate parts), to compile (books), to stitch close [sic](books etc.) ; To put in order; to arrange or to rectify ; 1. To arrange in a certain plain, order. 2. To collect in one place. 3. To mutually agree, be in one house ;1. To arrange, to put in order, to align. 2. To compile, to collect, to edit, to assemble, to join together ;
sgrin	 verb-pres 	sgrin	Transitive: Voluntary:   To have a competition; to cause to compete or to compare ; (archaic) To contest for victory ;To rival, compete with, to compare ;
bsgrin(d)	 verb-past 	sgrin	Transitive: Voluntary:   To have a competition; to cause to compete or to compare ; (archaic) To contest for victory ;To rival, compete with, to compare ;
bsgrin	 verb-fut 	sgrin	Transitive: Voluntary:   To have a competition; to cause to compete or to compare ; (archaic) To contest for victory ;To rival, compete with, to compare ;
sgrib	 verb-pres 	sgrib	Transitive: Voluntary:   To obscure; to cover, to darken, defile ; To cover, to hide by covering, to hide ;To cover, hide, create an obstacle for seeing something ;To obscure, to cover, to conceal ;
bsgribs	 verb-past 	sgrib	Transitive: Voluntary:   To obscure; to cover, to darken, defile ; To cover, to hide by covering, to hide ;To cover, hide, create an obstacle for seeing something ;To obscure, to cover, to conceal ;
bsgrib	 verb-fut 	sgrib	Transitive: Voluntary:   To obscure; to cover, to darken, defile ; To cover, to hide by covering, to hide ;To cover, hide, create an obstacle for seeing something ;To obscure, to cover, to conceal ;
sgrim	 verb-pres 	sgrim	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To hold fast; to force or twist together; to endeavor; (Cs.) to squeeze in, crow in, (Sch.) to be confused ; To concentrate; to exercise the mental power on; to pay attention; to spin or twist the threads together, to entwine ;1. To tightly spin (rope, thread &c.). 2. To be intelligent, careful ; 1. To concentrate, to focus. 2. To twist together ;
bsgrims	 verb-past 	sgrim	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To hold fast; to force or twist together; to endeavor; (Cs.) to squeeze in, crow in, (Sch.) to be confused ; To concentrate; to exercise the mental power on; to pay attention; to spin or twist the threads together, to entwine ;1. To tightly spin (rope, thread &c.). 2. To be intelligent, careful ; 1. To concentrate, to focus. 2. To twist together ;
bsgrim	 verb-fut 	sgrim	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To hold fast; to force or twist together; to endeavor; (Cs.) to squeeze in, crow in, (Sch.) to be confused ; To concentrate; to exercise the mental power on; to pay attention; to spin or twist the threads together, to entwine ;1. To tightly spin (rope, thread &c.). 2. To be intelligent, careful ; 1. To concentrate, to focus. 2. To twist together ;
sgril(d)	 verb-pres 	sgril	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make a roll of, to roll, wrap up; to wind into a spool ; To fold, to wrap up; to cause to fold or roll up; to combine ; 1. To make something roll. 2. To roll up, make into a ball. 3. To twist, braid, spin (rope and thread) ;  1. To twist, to wind. 2. To combine, to muster. 3. To stuff. 4. To barter, to convert currency, to exchange currency, exchange merchandise. 5. (math) To convert lower digits into higher numeric places ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Róna-Tas 1978: 359) ."]}
bsgril(d)	 verb-past 	sgril	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make a roll of, to roll, wrap up; to wind into a spool ; To fold, to wrap up; to cause to fold or roll up; to combine ; 1. To make something roll. 2. To roll up, make into a ball. 3. To twist, braid, spin (rope and thread) ;  1. To twist, to wind. 2. To combine, to muster. 3. To stuff. 4. To barter, to convert currency, to exchange currency, exchange merchandise. 5. (math) To convert lower digits into higher numeric places ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Róna-Tas 1978: 359) ."]}
bsgril	 verb-fut 	sgril	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make a roll of, to roll, wrap up; to wind into a spool ; To fold, to wrap up; to cause to fold or roll up; to combine ; 1. To make something roll. 2. To roll up, make into a ball. 3. To twist, braid, spin (rope and thread) ;  1. To twist, to wind. 2. To combine, to muster. 3. To stuff. 4. To barter, to convert currency, to exchange currency, exchange merchandise. 5. (math) To convert lower digits into higher numeric places ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Róna-Tas 1978: 359) ."]}
sgrug	 verb-pres 	sgrug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To collect, gather, pluck, pick ; To collect; to pick up ; 1. To gather, collect. 2. (in some dialects) To take care of, preserve ; To pick up, to gather, to collect ;
bsgrugs	 verb-past 	sgrug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To collect, gather, pluck, pick ; To collect; to pick up ; 1. To gather, collect. 2. (in some dialects) To take care of, preserve ; To pick up, to gather, to collect ;
bsgrug	 verb-fut 	sgrug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To collect, gather, pluck, pick ; To collect; to pick up ; 1. To gather, collect. 2. (in some dialects) To take care of, preserve ; To pick up, to gather, to collect ;
sgrung	 verb-pres 	sgrung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To mix, to invert, to feign (Cs.) ; To cause to purify ; To absorb, having been wet in water ;  To dissolve ;
bsgrungs	 verb-past 	sgrung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To mix, to invert, to feign (Cs.) ; To cause to purify ; To absorb, having been wet in water ;  To dissolve ;
bsgrung	 verb-fut 	sgrung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To mix, to invert, to feign (Cs.) ; To cause to purify ; To absorb, having been wet in water ;  To dissolve ;
sgrun	 verb-pres 	sgrun	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To resound; to reply in the same tone; to rival. 2. To compare; emulate, vie, contend with (Cs.) ; To have competition; to compete; to compare ; To compete, rival ; To rival, to compare ;
bsgrun(d)	 verb-past 	sgrun	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To resound; to reply in the same tone; to rival. 2. To compare; emulate, vie, contend with (Cs.) ; To have competition; to compete; to compare ; To compete, rival ; To rival, to compare ;
bsgrun	 verb-fut 	sgrun	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To resound; to reply in the same tone; to rival. 2. To compare; emulate, vie, contend with (Cs.) ; To have competition; to compete; to compare ; To compete, rival ; To rival, to compare ;
sgrub	 verb-pres 	sgrub	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To complete, finish, carry out, accomplish ; To carry out; to accomplish; to perform ; 1. To do an action. 2. To judge the truth, having presented arguments and scriptural citations. 3. To take on the means of religion ; 1. To attain, to do, to perform, to carry out, to execute. 2. To procure, to gain to acquire through effort. 3. (logic) To prove, to affirm, to establish, to establish a proof. 4. (math) To calculate, to find the value of, to make. 5. To attain, to practice religion, to perfect ;
bsgrubs	 verb-past 	sgrub	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To complete, finish, carry out, accomplish ; To carry out; to accomplish; to perform ; 1. To do an action. 2. To judge the truth, having presented arguments and scriptural citations. 3. To take on the means of religion ; 1. To attain, to do, to perform, to carry out, to execute. 2. To procure, to gain to acquire through effort. 3. (logic) To prove, to affirm, to establish, to establish a proof. 4. (math) To calculate, to find the value of, to make. 5. To attain, to practice religion, to perfect ;
bsgrub	 verb-fut 	sgrub	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To complete, finish, carry out, accomplish ; To carry out; to accomplish; to perform ; 1. To do an action. 2. To judge the truth, having presented arguments and scriptural citations. 3. To take on the means of religion ; 1. To attain, to do, to perform, to carry out, to execute. 2. To procure, to gain to acquire through effort. 3. (logic) To prove, to affirm, to establish, to establish a proof. 4. (math) To calculate, to find the value of, to make. 5. To attain, to practice religion, to perfect ;
sgre	 verb-pres 	sgre	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To repeat; to put or place in order; put together; collate ; To yoke; to apply the same method ;1. To compare a known situation in order to know a similar situation. 2. To churn something inside a liquid (such as water) ; To collate, to juxtapose, to assimilate ;
bsgres	 verb-past 	sgre	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To repeat; to put or place in order; put together; collate ; To yoke; to apply the same method ;1. To compare a known situation in order to know a similar situation. 2. To churn something inside a liquid (such as water) ; To collate, to juxtapose, to assimilate ;
bsgre	 verb-fut 	sgre	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To repeat; to put or place in order; put together; collate ; To yoke; to apply the same method ;1. To compare a known situation in order to know a similar situation. 2. To churn something inside a liquid (such as water) ; To collate, to juxtapose, to assimilate ;
sgreg	 verb-pres 	sgreg	   To belch ;
sgregs	 verb-past 	sgreg	   To belch ;
	 verb-fut 	sgreg	   To belch ;
sgreng	 verb-pres 	sgreng	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To lift, hoist, rise up ; To make stand up, to make erect ; To erect, to raise up, to hoist ;
bsgrengs	 verb-past 	sgreng	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To lift, hoist, rise up ; To make stand up, to make erect ; To erect, to raise up, to hoist ;
bsgreng	 verb-fut 	sgreng	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To lift, hoist, rise up ; To make stand up, to make erect ; To erect, to raise up, to hoist ;
sgro	 verb-pres 	sgro	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To debate, discuss, chatter freely ; 1. ;
bsgros	 verb-past 	sgro	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To debate, discuss, chatter freely ; 1. ;
bsgro	 verb-fut 	sgro	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To debate, discuss, chatter freely ; 1. ;
sgrog	 verb-pres 	sgrog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To call, shout forth, publish, proclaim, declare ; To read; to announce; to declare; to proclaim, promulgate ; 1. To make a large noise. 2. To make known to all by speaking from the mouth or presenting in presting ; To call out, to shout out, to roar, to proclaim, to read aloud ;
bsgrags	 verb-past 	sgrog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To call, shout forth, publish, proclaim, declare ; To read; to announce; to declare; to proclaim, promulgate ; 1. To make a large noise. 2. To make known to all by speaking from the mouth or presenting in presting ; To call out, to shout out, to roar, to proclaim, to read aloud ;
bsgrag	 verb-fut 	sgrog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To call, shout forth, publish, proclaim, declare ; To read; to announce; to declare; to proclaim, promulgate ; 1. To make a large noise. 2. To make known to all by speaking from the mouth or presenting in presting ; To call out, to shout out, to roar, to proclaim, to read aloud ;
sgrog	 verb-pres 	sgrog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To mend; to re-stitch ; To bind with a rope &c. the feet and hands of men and cattle ; 1. To sew, to stitch. 2. To tie, to fasten, to attach ;
bsgrogs	 verb-past 	sgrog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To mend; to re-stitch ; To bind with a rope &c. the feet and hands of men and cattle ; 1. To sew, to stitch. 2. To tie, to fasten, to attach ;
bsgrog	 verb-fut 	sgrog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To mend; to re-stitch ; To bind with a rope &c. the feet and hands of men and cattle ; 1. To sew, to stitch. 2. To tie, to fasten, to attach ;
sgrong	 verb-pres 	sgrong	Transitive: Voluntary:   To enumerate; to reckon up separately ; To make someone count ; To count, calculate, find out by working with numbers ;  To deem, to consider, to estimate, to count ;
bsgrangs	 verb-past 	sgrong	Transitive: Voluntary:   To enumerate; to reckon up separately ; To make someone count ; To count, calculate, find out by working with numbers ;  To deem, to consider, to estimate, to count ;
bsgrang	 verb-fut 	sgrong	Transitive: Voluntary:   To enumerate; to reckon up separately ; To make someone count ; To count, calculate, find out by working with numbers ;  To deem, to consider, to estimate, to count ;
sgrod	 verb-pres 	sgrod	Transitive: Voluntary:   (rare) To go ; (in some ;To engage in sexual intercourse ;
bsgrod	 verb-past 	sgrod	Transitive: Voluntary:   (rare) To go ; (in some ;To engage in sexual intercourse ;
bsgrod	 verb-fut 	sgrod	Transitive: Voluntary:   (rare) To go ; (in some ;To engage in sexual intercourse ;
sgron	 verb-pres 	sgron	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cover, lay over, adorn, decorate; to light, kindle ; To cause to wear or put on ; 1. To set on fire. 2. (honorific) To ornament with ornaments, have wear attire ; 1. (honorific) To offer. 2. (honorific) To wear. 3. (honorific) To report. 4. (honorific) To lay out, to set out. 5. To light a fire, to kindle, to ignite, to set fire to ;
bsgron	 verb-past 	sgron	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cover, lay over, adorn, decorate; to light, kindle ; To cause to wear or put on ; 1. To set on fire. 2. (honorific) To ornament with ornaments, have wear attire ; 1. (honorific) To offer. 2. (honorific) To wear. 3. (honorific) To report. 4. (honorific) To lay out, to set out. 5. To light a fire, to kindle, to ignite, to set fire to ;
bsgron	 verb-fut 	sgron	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cover, lay over, adorn, decorate; to light, kindle ; To cause to wear or put on ; 1. To set on fire. 2. (honorific) To ornament with ornaments, have wear attire ; 1. (honorific) To offer. 2. (honorific) To wear. 3. (honorific) To report. 4. (honorific) To lay out, to set out. 5. To light a fire, to kindle, to ignite, to set fire to ;
sgrol	 verb-pres 	sgrol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To save, rescue, deliver; to set free; to liberate ; To save, rescue; to set free; to liberate ;1. To set free from (fear &c.). 2. To sentence to death ; To liberate, to free, to deliver, to release, to cross over ;
bsgral	 verb-past 	sgrol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To save, rescue, deliver; to set free; to liberate ; To save, rescue; to set free; to liberate ;1. To set free from (fear &c.). 2. To sentence to death ; To liberate, to free, to deliver, to release, to cross over ;
bsgral	 verb-fut 	sgrol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To save, rescue, deliver; to set free; to liberate ; To save, rescue; to set free; to liberate ;1. To set free from (fear &c.). 2. To sentence to death ; To liberate, to free, to deliver, to release, to cross over ;
brgyags	 verb-pres 	brgyags	Intransitive:    1. To be satisfied with food and drink. 2. (of bodily flesh) To be fatty, corpulent ; Compare rgyags
Past: 	 verb-past 	brgyags	Intransitive:    1. To be satisfied with food and drink. 2. (of bodily flesh) To be fatty, corpulent ; Compare rgyags
Future: 	 verb-fut 	brgyags	Intransitive:    1. To be satisfied with food and drink. 2. (of bodily flesh) To be fatty, corpulent ; Compare rgyags
brgyal	 verb-pres 	brgyal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To fall down senseless; to lie senseless, to sink down unconscious, to faint. 2. To howl, of a fox (Sch.) ; To become unconscious; to faint; to become weary; to tire ; To become unconscious; to faint; to become weary; to tire ; To faint, to become unconscious ;
brgyal(d)	 verb-past 	brgyal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To fall down senseless; to lie senseless, to sink down unconscious, to faint. 2. To howl, of a fox (Sch.) ; To become unconscious; to faint; to become weary; to tire ; To become unconscious; to faint; to become weary; to tire ; To faint, to become unconscious ;
brgyal	 verb-fut 	brgyal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To fall down senseless; to lie senseless, to sink down unconscious, to faint. 2. To howl, of a fox (Sch.) ; To become unconscious; to faint; to become weary; to tire ; To become unconscious; to faint; to become weary; to tire ; To faint, to become unconscious ;
rgyud	 verb-pres 	brgyud	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To descend; to send, arrive by way of; to do indirectly; to continue without interruption ; 1. (trans.) To pass many stages. 2. (intr.) i. To pass through a place on one's way somewhere else. ii. To transmit consecutively ;To pass through, to conduct, to transmit, to pass down, to hand down, through care of, by way of ;
brgyud	 verb-past 	brgyud	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To descend; to send, arrive by way of; to do indirectly; to continue without interruption ; 1. (trans.) To pass many stages. 2. (intr.) i. To pass through a place on one's way somewhere else. ii. To transmit consecutively ;To pass through, to conduct, to transmit, to pass down, to hand down, through care of, by way of ;
brgyud	 verb-fut 	brgyud	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To descend; to send, arrive by way of; to do indirectly; to continue without interruption ; 1. (trans.) To pass many stages. 2. (intr.) i. To pass through a place on one's way somewhere else. ii. To transmit consecutively ;To pass through, to conduct, to transmit, to pass down, to hand down, through care of, by way of ;
bsgom	 verb-pres 	bsgom	 Voluntary:   A baffling list of principal parts, presumably he has conflated sgom
bgoms	 verb-past 	bsgom	 Voluntary:   A baffling list of principal parts, presumably he has conflated sgom
bgom	 verb-fut 	bsgom	 Voluntary:   A baffling list of principal parts, presumably he has conflated sgom
bsgrang	 verb-pres 	bsgrang	   To cause to get cold ;
	 verb-past 	bsgrang	   To cause to get cold ;
	 verb-fut 	bsgrang	   To cause to get cold ;
sgrad	 verb-pres 	bsgrad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To open wide ; To cause to open (eyes, mouth &c.) ; To open the eyes wide (alternate orthography of ; 1. To open wide. 2. To set apart, to spread open ;
bsgrad	 verb-past 	bsgrad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To open wide ; To cause to open (eyes, mouth &c.) ; To open the eyes wide (alternate orthography of ; 1. To open wide. 2. To set apart, to spread open ;
bsgrad	 verb-fut 	bsgrad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To open wide ; To cause to open (eyes, mouth &c.) ; To open the eyes wide (alternate orthography of ; 1. To open wide. 2. To set apart, to spread open ;
bsgral	 verb-pres 	bsgral	   To pass, cross over ; Perhaps a specialization of sgrol
	 verb-past 	bsgral	   To pass, cross over ; Perhaps a specialization of sgrol
	 verb-fut 	bsgral	   To pass, cross over ; Perhaps a specialization of sgrol
ngar	 verb-pres 	ngar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To strengthen the mental power; to be vigorous; to be active ; To become increasingly hot;To be encouraged, to be inspired, to be stimulated, to be excited, to be inflamed ;
ngar(d)	 verb-past 	ngar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To strengthen the mental power; to be vigorous; to be active ; To become increasingly hot;To be encouraged, to be inspired, to be stimulated, to be excited, to be inflamed ;
ngar	 verb-fut 	ngar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To strengthen the mental power; to be vigorous; to be active ; To become increasingly hot;To be encouraged, to be inspired, to be stimulated, to be excited, to be inflamed ;
ngal	 verb-pres 	ngal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be fatigued, wearied, prostrate with exercise of the body ; To feel tired; to be weary ; To be tired, to be exhausted ;
ngal(d)	 verb-past 	ngal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be fatigued, wearied, prostrate with exercise of the body ; To feel tired; to be weary ; To be tired, to be exhausted ;
ngal	 verb-fut 	ngal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be fatigued, wearied, prostrate with exercise of the body ; To feel tired; to be weary ; To be tired, to be exhausted ;
ngu	 verb-pres 	ngu	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To cry, weep ; To cry; weep ;1. To shed tears and make a noise of suffering because of pain, illness, or sadness. 2. To make a noise like crying, sobbing ; To weep, to cry;
ngus	 verb-past 	ngu	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To cry, weep ; To cry; weep ;1. To shed tears and make a noise of suffering because of pain, illness, or sadness. 2. To make a noise like crying, sobbing ; To weep, to cry;
ngu	 verb-fut 	ngu	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To cry, weep ; To cry; weep ;1. To shed tears and make a noise of suffering because of pain, illness, or sadness. 2. To make a noise like crying, sobbing ; To weep, to cry;
ngur	 verb-pres 	ngur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To grunt (of pigs and yaks) ; For a yak or dri to make a sound ; To grunt (used of pigs and cattle) ;
ngur	 verb-past 	ngur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To grunt (of pigs and yaks) ; For a yak or dri to make a sound ; To grunt (used of pigs and cattle) ;
ngur	 verb-fut 	ngur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To grunt (of pigs and yaks) ; For a yak or dri to make a sound ; To grunt (used of pigs and cattle) ;
nger	 verb-pres 	nger	Transitive: Involuntary:   To growl, to snarl, to roar (used of dogs and so forth) ;
nger	 verb-past 	nger	Transitive: Involuntary:   To growl, to snarl, to roar (used of dogs and so forth) ;
nger	 verb-fut 	nger	Transitive: Involuntary:   To growl, to snarl, to roar (used of dogs and so forth) ;
nges	 verb-pres 	nges	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be the sum of a mathematical calculation, i.e. to hold it as a certain result ; To be confirmed; to be certain ; 1. To hold in mind having come to know. 2. To decide, resolve ; To determine, to ascertain, to be certain; (preceded by a verb) will, would certainly do; must, ought to ;
nges	 verb-past 	nges	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be the sum of a mathematical calculation, i.e. to hold it as a certain result ; To be confirmed; to be certain ; 1. To hold in mind having come to know. 2. To decide, resolve ; To determine, to ascertain, to be certain; (preceded by a verb) will, would certainly do; must, ought to ;
nges	 verb-fut 	nges	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be the sum of a mathematical calculation, i.e. to hold it as a certain result ; To be confirmed; to be certain ; 1. To hold in mind having come to know. 2. To decide, resolve ; To determine, to ascertain, to be certain; (preceded by a verb) will, would certainly do; must, ought to ;
ngom	 verb-pres 	ngom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To satisfy one's self with gain, to be contented ; To be satisfied; to be content; to quench ; To show and make another understand one's own qualities and merits ; To show off ;
ngoms	 verb-past 	ngom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To satisfy one's self with gain, to be contented ; To be satisfied; to be content; to quench ; To show and make another understand one's own qualities and merits ; To show off ;
ngom	 verb-fut 	ngom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To satisfy one's self with gain, to be contented ; To be satisfied; to be content; to quench ; To show and make another understand one's own qualities and merits ; To show off ;
ngoms	 verb-pres 	ngoms	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be satisfied, appeased ;To be satisfied, to be satiated ;
ngoms	 verb-past 	ngoms	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be satisfied, appeased ;To be satisfied, to be satiated ;
ngoms	 verb-fut 	ngoms	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be satisfied, appeased ;To be satisfied, to be satiated ;
dngang	 verb-pres 	dngang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be out of breath, to pant, to feel oppressed (e.g. when plunged into cold water, but especially when frightened and terrified). 2. To be frightened, to fear, to be afraid of ; To suffocate, to be out of breath; to choke, to be frightened ; Same as ; To gasp, to pant (out of fear). 2. To be afraid, to be terrified ; Perhaps not to be separated from sngang
dngangs	 verb-past 	dngang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be out of breath, to pant, to feel oppressed (e.g. when plunged into cold water, but especially when frightened and terrified). 2. To be frightened, to fear, to be afraid of ; To suffocate, to be out of breath; to choke, to be frightened ; Same as ; To gasp, to pant (out of fear). 2. To be afraid, to be terrified ; Perhaps not to be separated from sngang
dngang	 verb-fut 	dngang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be out of breath, to pant, to feel oppressed (e.g. when plunged into cold water, but especially when frightened and terrified). 2. To be frightened, to fear, to be afraid of ; To suffocate, to be out of breath; to choke, to be frightened ; Same as ; To gasp, to pant (out of fear). 2. To be afraid, to be terrified ; Perhaps not to be separated from sngang
dngar	 verb-pres 	dngar	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To put in order, arrange properly ; To put in order, to put in a line, to arrange properly; to line up or to be in a line ;To line up, put in rows;
dngar(d)	 verb-past 	dngar	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To put in order, arrange properly ; To put in order, to put in a line, to arrange properly; to line up or to be in a line ;To line up, put in rows;
dngar	 verb-fut 	dngar	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To put in order, arrange properly ; To put in order, to put in a line, to arrange properly; to line up or to be in a line ;To line up, put in rows;
dngom	 verb-pres 	dngom	 Voluntary:   To boast, to show off ;
dngoms	 verb-past 	dngom	 Voluntary:   To boast, to show off ;
dngom	 verb-fut 	dngom	 Voluntary:   To boast, to show off ;
mngag	 verb-pres 	mngag	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To commission, charge, send, delegate (a messenger commissary &c). ; To send a delegate or a message; to give instructions, to keep as a servant ; To entrust, commit someone to go to do an action ; 1. To entrust, to assign, to commission, to appoint. 2. To send, to dispatch ;
mngags	 verb-past 	mngag	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To commission, charge, send, delegate (a messenger commissary &c). ; To send a delegate or a message; to give instructions, to keep as a servant ; To entrust, commit someone to go to do an action ; 1. To entrust, to assign, to commission, to appoint. 2. To send, to dispatch ;
mngag	 verb-fut 	mngag	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To commission, charge, send, delegate (a messenger commissary &c). ; To send a delegate or a message; to give instructions, to keep as a servant ; To entrust, commit someone to go to do an action ; 1. To entrust, to assign, to commission, to appoint. 2. To send, to dispatch ;
mgan	 verb-pres 	mngan	   To curse, to execrate (Jä) ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Stein 1942: 317-218)"]}
	 verb-past 	mngan	   To curse, to execrate (Jä) ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Stein 1942: 317-218)"]}
	 verb-fut 	mngan	   To curse, to execrate (Jä) ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Stein 1942: 317-218)"]}
mnga'	 verb-pres 	mnga'	   1. To own, possess. 2. (honorific) To be, exist ; To own, possess; to have something in mind, to have knowledge of; to remember ; To be (;
mnga'	 verb-past 	mnga'	   1. To own, possess. 2. (honorific) To be, exist ; To own, possess; to have something in mind, to have knowledge of; to remember ; To be (;
mnga'	 verb-fut 	mnga'	   1. To own, possess. 2. (honorific) To be, exist ; To own, possess; to have something in mind, to have knowledge of; to remember ; To be (;
	 verb-pres 	mnga'	  
	 verb-past 	mnga'	  
	 verb-fut 	mnga'	  
mngar	 verb-pres 	mngar	 Involuntary:   [To be ] sweet;
mngar	 verb-past 	mngar	 Involuntary:   [To be ] sweet;
mngar	 verb-fut 	mngar	 Involuntary:   [To be ] sweet;
mngon	 verb-pres 	mngon	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be evident, to appear clearly ; To manifest, to observe, to become visible ; To become clear ; To become clear, to become visible, to become evident, to appear ;
mngon(d)	 verb-past 	mngon	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be evident, to appear clearly ; To manifest, to observe, to become visible ; To become clear ; To become clear, to become visible, to become evident, to appear ;
mngon	 verb-fut 	mngon	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be evident, to appear clearly ; To manifest, to observe, to become visible ; To become clear ; To become clear, to become visible, to become evident, to appear ;
rnga	 verb-pres 	rnga	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To mow, reap, cut with a sickle ; To mow, reap; cup with a sickle; harvest ; To cut down grain ; To cut, mow, harvest ;
brngas	 verb-past 	rnga	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To mow, reap, cut with a sickle ; To mow, reap; cup with a sickle; harvest ; To cut down grain ; To cut, mow, harvest ;
brnga	 verb-fut 	rnga	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To mow, reap, cut with a sickle ; To mow, reap; cup with a sickle; harvest ; To cut down grain ; To cut, mow, harvest ;
rngan	 verb-pres 	rngan	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To pay hire to, to pay wages or remuneration; (sometimes) to bribe, corrupt ; To honor, worship ; To reward; to award; to give a present, to give a prize; to bribe ; To give a person salary for work performed ; To bribe ;
brngan(d)	 verb-past 	rngan	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To pay hire to, to pay wages or remuneration; (sometimes) to bribe, corrupt ; To honor, worship ; To reward; to award; to give a present, to give a prize; to bribe ; To give a person salary for work performed ; To bribe ;
brngan	 verb-fut 	rngan	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To pay hire to, to pay wages or remuneration; (sometimes) to bribe, corrupt ; To honor, worship ; To reward; to award; to give a present, to give a prize; to bribe ; To give a person salary for work performed ; To bribe ;
rngab	 verb-pres 	rngab	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be hungry, to be greedy, have a craving appetite. 2. (cf. ; To feel greedy; to crave ; (archaic) To be hungry ; 1. To be hungry. 2. To be greedy for, to crave for, to have an appetite for ;
brngabs	 verb-past 	rngab	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be hungry, to be greedy, have a craving appetite. 2. (cf. ; To feel greedy; to crave ; (archaic) To be hungry ; 1. To be hungry. 2. To be greedy for, to crave for, to have an appetite for ;
brngab	 verb-fut 	rngab	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be hungry, to be greedy, have a craving appetite. 2. (cf. ; To feel greedy; to crave ; (archaic) To be hungry ; 1. To be hungry. 2. To be greedy for, to crave for, to have an appetite for ;
rngab	 verb-pres 	rngab	   3. (In West) To mow, reap, cut down with a sickle ; Compare rnga
	 verb-past 	rngab	   3. (In West) To mow, reap, cut down with a sickle ; Compare rnga
	 verb-fut 	rngab	   3. (In West) To mow, reap, cut down with a sickle ; Compare rnga
rngom	 verb-pres 	rngam	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To rage at; be furious; devastate. 2. To breathe violently, to pant for, to desire ardently ; To feel greedy, to crave ; To be angry ; To want, to crave, to be desirous of. 2. To be hostile, to be ferocious ;
brngams	 verb-past 	rngam	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To rage at; be furious; devastate. 2. To breathe violently, to pant for, to desire ardently ; To feel greedy, to crave ; To be angry ; To want, to crave, to be desirous of. 2. To be hostile, to be ferocious ;
brngam	 verb-fut 	rngam	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To rage at; be furious; devastate. 2. To breathe violently, to pant for, to desire ardently ; To feel greedy, to crave ; To be angry ; To want, to crave, to be desirous of. 2. To be hostile, to be ferocious ;
rngam	 verb-pres 	rngam	Intransitive:    To hunger, crave ; To thirst for, crave ;
rngam	 verb-past 	rngam	Intransitive:    To hunger, crave ; To thirst for, crave ;
rngam	 verb-fut 	rngam	Intransitive:    To hunger, crave ; To thirst for, crave ;
rngub	 verb-pres 	rngub	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To draw in, inhale, breathe in ; To breathe, to inhale, sniff ; To draw inside the mouth (breath, smoke &c.) ; To sip, to inhale, to breath in ;
brngubs	 verb-past 	rngub	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To draw in, inhale, breathe in ; To breathe, to inhale, sniff ; To draw inside the mouth (breath, smoke &c.) ; To sip, to inhale, to breath in ;
brngub	 verb-fut 	rngub	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To draw in, inhale, breathe in ; To breathe, to inhale, sniff ; To draw inside the mouth (breath, smoke &c.) ; To sip, to inhale, to breath in ;
rngul	 verb-pres 	rngul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To perspire ; To sweat, perspire ;
rngul(d)	 verb-past 	rngul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To perspire ; To sweat, perspire ;
rngul	 verb-fut 	rngul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To perspire ; To sweat, perspire ;
rngul	 verb-pres 	rngul	   To sweat, perspire ; To cause to perspire ;
brngul	 verb-past 	rngul	   To sweat, perspire ; To cause to perspire ;
brngul	 verb-fut 	rngul	   To sweat, perspire ; To cause to perspire ;
rngo	 verb-pres 	rngo	   To be able (Cs.) ;
	 verb-past 	rngo	   To be able (Cs.) ;
	 verb-fut 	rngo	   To be able (Cs.) ;
rngod	 verb-pres 	rngod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To parch (barley, wheat, or rice); to bruise, to roast; to fry (e.g. meat in a pan) ; (barley) To be cropped (Situ 77) ; To roast barley, fry meat, &c. ;Having put (foot &c.) in a frying pan to heat and cook ; To parch, to roast, to fry ; The spoken Tibetan non-causative nghö˖ö̀ has no prestten Tibetan correspondent, and may be a secondary derivative, formed by analogy to such pairs as pâr
brngos	 verb-past 	rngod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To parch (barley, wheat, or rice); to bruise, to roast; to fry (e.g. meat in a pan) ; (barley) To be cropped (Situ 77) ; To roast barley, fry meat, &c. ;Having put (foot &c.) in a frying pan to heat and cook ; To parch, to roast, to fry ; The spoken Tibetan non-causative nghö˖ö̀ has no prestten Tibetan correspondent, and may be a secondary derivative, formed by analogy to such pairs as pâr
brngod	 verb-fut 	rngod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To parch (barley, wheat, or rice); to bruise, to roast; to fry (e.g. meat in a pan) ; (barley) To be cropped (Situ 77) ; To roast barley, fry meat, &c. ;Having put (foot &c.) in a frying pan to heat and cook ; To parch, to roast, to fry ; The spoken Tibetan non-causative nghö˖ö̀ has no prestten Tibetan correspondent, and may be a secondary derivative, formed by analogy to such pairs as pâr
rngod	 verb-pres 	rngod	Transitive: Voluntary:   (acc. to Cs.) To desire ; To seduce, deceive (Situ 75) ; to seduce; deceive ; To delude, deceive ;
brngod	 verb-past 	rngod	Transitive: Voluntary:   (acc. to Cs.) To desire ; To seduce, deceive (Situ 75) ; to seduce; deceive ; To delude, deceive ;
brngod	 verb-fut 	rngod	Transitive: Voluntary:   (acc. to Cs.) To desire ; To seduce, deceive (Situ 75) ; to seduce; deceive ; To delude, deceive ;
rngon	 verb-pres 	rngon	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To pursue wild beasts, to hunt. 2. To seduce, especially to sensual indulgences (Jä) ; To hunt; to chase wild animals for killing ; To catch and slay a beast ; To hunt ;
brngon(d)	 verb-past 	rngon	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To pursue wild beasts, to hunt. 2. To seduce, especially to sensual indulgences (Jä) ; To hunt; to chase wild animals for killing ; To catch and slay a beast ; To hunt ;
brngon	 verb-fut 	rngon	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To pursue wild beasts, to hunt. 2. To seduce, especially to sensual indulgences (Jä) ; To hunt; to chase wild animals for killing ; To catch and slay a beast ; To hunt ;
rngob	 verb-pres 	rngob	   To do, to be able (cf. ;
	 verb-past 	rngob	   To do, to be able (cf. ;
	 verb-fut 	rngob	   To do, to be able (cf. ;
snga	 verb-pres 	snga	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be the first, to come first, to be beforehand ; To happen at a certain early time ;
sngas	 verb-past 	snga	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be the first, to come first, to be beforehand ; To happen at a certain early time ;
snga	 verb-fut 	snga	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be the first, to come first, to be beforehand ; To happen at a certain early time ;
sngang	 verb-pres 	sngang	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To be out of breath, to pant, to feel oppressed (e.g. when plunged into cold water, but especially when frightened and terrified). 2. To be frightened, to fear, to be afraid of ; To fear; frighten; suffocate ; To be suddenly afraid ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["ND"]}
sngangs	 verb-past 	sngang	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To be out of breath, to pant, to feel oppressed (e.g. when plunged into cold water, but especially when frightened and terrified). 2. To be frightened, to fear, to be afraid of ; To fear; frighten; suffocate ; To be suddenly afraid ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["ND"]}
sngang	 verb-fut 	sngang	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To be out of breath, to pant, to feel oppressed (e.g. when plunged into cold water, but especially when frightened and terrified). 2. To be frightened, to fear, to be afraid of ; To fear; frighten; suffocate ; To be suddenly afraid ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["ND"]}
sngab	 verb-pres 	sngab	Intransitive:    To very much crave ;
sngab	 verb-past 	sngab	Intransitive:    To very much crave ;
sngab	 verb-fut 	sngab	Intransitive:    To very much crave ;
sngam	 verb-pres 	sngam	Intransitive:    To breath deeply ;
bsngam	 verb-past 	sngam	Intransitive:    To breath deeply ;
sngam	 verb-fut 	sngam	Intransitive:    To breath deeply ;
sngal	 verb-pres 	sngal	   To be faint or exhausted (Cs.) ; To exhaust, to cause to be weary ;
bsngal	 verb-past 	sngal	   To be faint or exhausted (Cs.) ; To exhaust, to cause to be weary ;
bsngal	 verb-fut 	sngal	   To be faint or exhausted (Cs.) ; To exhaust, to cause to be weary ;
sngur	 verb-pres 	sngur	   To snore ;
bsngur(d)	 verb-past 	sngur	   To snore ;
sngur	 verb-fut 	sngur	   To snore ;
sngo	 verb-pres 	sngo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   I. To bless, pronounce benedictions. 2. To design, intend ; To make a firm resolve to go the way of Nirvāṇa, or do any act of piety ; To dedicate one's virtue; to transfer, multiply ; 1. To give or send with the mind. 2. To explain the reason ; To calculate, to enumerate, to estimate, to investigate ;
bsngos	 verb-past 	sngo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   I. To bless, pronounce benedictions. 2. To design, intend ; To make a firm resolve to go the way of Nirvāṇa, or do any act of piety ; To dedicate one's virtue; to transfer, multiply ; 1. To give or send with the mind. 2. To explain the reason ; To calculate, to enumerate, to estimate, to investigate ;
bsngo	 verb-fut 	sngo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   I. To bless, pronounce benedictions. 2. To design, intend ; To make a firm resolve to go the way of Nirvāṇa, or do any act of piety ; To dedicate one's virtue; to transfer, multiply ; 1. To give or send with the mind. 2. To explain the reason ; To calculate, to enumerate, to estimate, to investigate ;
sngo	 verb-pres 	sngo	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To become green ; To make blue ;To become blue or black ;
bsngos	 verb-past 	sngo	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To become green ; To make blue ;To become blue or black ;
bsngo	 verb-fut 	sngo	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To become green ; To make blue ;To become blue or black ;
sngog	 verb-pres 	sngog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To vex, annoy, cause petty irritation, disturb from rest ; To excavate, search; find out, discover a mistake ; 1. To speak critically. 2. To dig, excavate ; To rummage through, to search, to empty out, to extract ;
bsngogs	 verb-past 	sngog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To vex, annoy, cause petty irritation, disturb from rest ; To excavate, search; find out, discover a mistake ; 1. To speak critically. 2. To dig, excavate ; To rummage through, to search, to empty out, to extract ;
bsngog	 verb-fut 	sngog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To vex, annoy, cause petty irritation, disturb from rest ; To excavate, search; find out, discover a mistake ; 1. To speak critically. 2. To dig, excavate ; To rummage through, to search, to empty out, to extract ;
brngad	 verb-pres 	brngad	   1. To crop barley. 2. To tempt (Situ 77). 3. To seduce deceitfully (a woman or man) (Sch.); to draw out; distill; extract the juice of ;
	 verb-past 	brngad	   1. To crop barley. 2. To tempt (Situ 77). 3. To seduce deceitfully (a woman or man) (Sch.); to draw out; distill; extract the juice of ;
	 verb-fut 	brngad	   1. To crop barley. 2. To tempt (Situ 77). 3. To seduce deceitfully (a woman or man) (Sch.); to draw out; distill; extract the juice of ;
brngog	 verb-pres 	brngog	   To point out another's faults; seek out faults; to search for a lost article ; Probably a xylograph error for bsngog
	 verb-past 	brngog	   To point out another's faults; seek out faults; to search for a lost article ; Probably a xylograph error for bsngog
	 verb-fut 	brngog	   To point out another's faults; seek out faults; to search for a lost article ; Probably a xylograph error for bsngog
bsngags	 verb-pres 	bsngags	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To praise, commend, extol, recommend ; To praise, eulogize ; To speak well of a man, deed, or thing ; To praise, to eulogize, to glorify ;
bsngags	 verb-past 	bsngags	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To praise, commend, extol, recommend ; To praise, eulogize ; To speak well of a man, deed, or thing ; To praise, to eulogize, to glorify ;
bsngags	 verb-fut 	bsngags	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To praise, commend, extol, recommend ; To praise, eulogize ; To speak well of a man, deed, or thing ; To praise, to eulogize, to glorify ;
sngas	 verb-pres 	bsngas	Intransitive:    To place the head or body upon a cushion, to recline ; To rest on a pillow; to lean on or support ; One's own body not falling down is supported by another object ;
bsngas	 verb-past 	bsngas	Intransitive:    To place the head or body upon a cushion, to recline ; To rest on a pillow; to lean on or support ; One's own body not falling down is supported by another object ;
bsngas	 verb-fut 	bsngas	Intransitive:    To place the head or body upon a cushion, to recline ; To rest on a pillow; to lean on or support ; One's own body not falling down is supported by another object ;
	 verb-pres 	can	  {:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS"]}
	 verb-past 	can	  {:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS"]}
	 verb-fut 	can	  {:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS"]}
cog	 verb-pres 	cog	   To have leisure ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS,"]}
	 verb-past 	cog	   To have leisure ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS,"]}
	 verb-fut 	cog	   To have leisure ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS,"]}
cong	 verb-pres 	cong	   To raise wailings, loud lamentations ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
	 verb-past 	cong	   To raise wailings, loud lamentations ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
	 verb-fut 	cong	   To raise wailings, loud lamentations ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
gcar	 verb-pres 	gcar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   In the presence of, near to ;
bcar(d)	 verb-past 	gcar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   In the presence of, near to ;
gcar	 verb-fut 	gcar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   In the presence of, near to ;
gcar	 verb-pres 	gcar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To hit or strike ;
gcar	 verb-past 	gcar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To hit or strike ;
gcar	 verb-fut 	gcar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To hit or strike ;
gcal	 verb-pres 	gcal	   To spread, display; lay out (e.g. precious stones, jewels on a table or the ground (Jä)). ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}
	 verb-past 	gcal	   To spread, display; lay out (e.g. precious stones, jewels on a table or the ground (Jä)). ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}
	 verb-fut 	gcal	   To spread, display; lay out (e.g. precious stones, jewels on a table or the ground (Jä)). ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}
gci	 verb-pres 	gci	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To discharge urine, to make water; to piss ; To urinate ; Root gci < *gtsyi < *g-tsi < *tsi (Beyer 1992: 83).
gcis	 verb-past 	gci	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To discharge urine, to make water; to piss ; To urinate ; Root gci < *gtsyi < *g-tsi < *tsi (Beyer 1992: 83).
gci	 verb-fut 	gci	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To discharge urine, to make water; to piss ; To urinate ; Root gci < *gtsyi < *g-tsi < *tsi (Beyer 1992: 83).
gcir	 verb-pres 	gcir	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To press flat ; To squeeze, to press ;{:tag :orth, :attrs nil, :content ["'chir"]}
bcir	 verb-past 	gcir	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To press flat ; To squeeze, to press ;{:tag :orth, :attrs nil, :content ["'chir"]}
gcir	 verb-fut 	gcir	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To press flat ; To squeeze, to press ;{:tag :orth, :attrs nil, :content ["'chir"]}
gcil	 verb-pres 	gcil	Transitive:    To spoil, destroy (Sch.) ; To cut (meat &c.) with a knife ;
gcil	 verb-past 	gcil	Transitive:    To spoil, destroy (Sch.) ; To cut (meat &c.) with a knife ;
gcil	 verb-fut 	gcil	Transitive:    To spoil, destroy (Sch.) ; To cut (meat &c.) with a knife ;
gcis	 verb-pres 	gcis	 Involuntary:   A variant present for gci
gcis	 verb-past 	gcis	 Involuntary:   A variant present for gci
	 verb-fut 	gcis	 Involuntary:   A variant present for gci
gcu	 verb-pres 	gcu	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To squeeze, strain, whirl, turn round like the twisting of a screw ; To turn, to turn round, to twist, to twine, to plate, to braid ; To twist, to turn aside ; To make something change from being straight ;To twist around, to presng, to screw in ;
gcus	 verb-past 	gcu	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To squeeze, strain, whirl, turn round like the twisting of a screw ; To turn, to turn round, to twist, to twine, to plate, to braid ; To twist, to turn aside ; To make something change from being straight ;To twist around, to presng, to screw in ;
gcu	 verb-fut 	gcu	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To squeeze, strain, whirl, turn round like the twisting of a screw ; To turn, to turn round, to twist, to twine, to plate, to braid ; To twist, to turn aside ; To make something change from being straight ;To twist around, to presng, to screw in ;
gcugs	 verb-pres 	gcugs	Transitive:    1. (intrans.) To be emotionally close, in harmony. 1. (trans.) To love ;
gcugs	 verb-past 	gcugs	Transitive:    1. (intrans.) To be emotionally close, in harmony. 1. (trans.) To love ;
gcugs	 verb-fut 	gcugs	Transitive:    1. (intrans.) To be emotionally close, in harmony. 1. (trans.) To love ;
gcud	 verb-pres 	gcud	Transitive:    To wrap, enclose inside of something ;
gcud	 verb-past 	gcud	Transitive:    To wrap, enclose inside of something ;
gcud	 verb-fut 	gcud	Transitive:    To wrap, enclose inside of something ;
gcur	 verb-pres 	gcur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To be flattened down (Sch.). 2. (colloquial) To bar, obstruct, block up by snow obstructing a road; To become helpless ;  1. To squeeze into, inside some place. 2. To be trapped, helpless ; Compare 'jur
gcur(d)	 verb-past 	gcur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To be flattened down (Sch.). 2. (colloquial) To bar, obstruct, block up by snow obstructing a road; To become helpless ;  1. To squeeze into, inside some place. 2. To be trapped, helpless ; Compare 'jur
gcur	 verb-fut 	gcur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To be flattened down (Sch.). 2. (colloquial) To bar, obstruct, block up by snow obstructing a road; To become helpless ;  1. To squeeze into, inside some place. 2. To be trapped, helpless ; Compare 'jur
gcus	 verb-pres 	gcus	   To interfere, to meddle with (Nag) ;
	 verb-past 	gcus	   To interfere, to meddle with (Nag) ;
	 verb-fut 	gcus	   To interfere, to meddle with (Nag) ;
gcer	 verb-pres 	gcer	   To squash, squeeze ; Compare bcer
bcar(d)	 verb-past 	gcer	   To squash, squeeze ; Compare bcer
bcar	 verb-fut 	gcer	   To squash, squeeze ; Compare bcer
gces	 verb-pres 	gces	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To have attachment, to love ; To feel sympathy or pity for ;To value, cherish, prize, respect ;
gces	 verb-past 	gces	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To have attachment, to love ; To feel sympathy or pity for ;To value, cherish, prize, respect ;
gces	 verb-fut 	gces	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To have attachment, to love ; To feel sympathy or pity for ;To value, cherish, prize, respect ;
gcog	 verb-pres 	gcog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To break, to burst asunder, to cleave, to split, blast, to violate ; To break, split ; 1. To break something hard into many pieces. 2. To recover from illness. 3. To not respect, not comply, not agree to. 4. To make fewer ; 1. To break, split, fragment. 2. To oppress, to suppress. 3. To reduce, deduct, lower. 4. To contradict, to break a pledge, to disobey ;
bcag	 verb-past 	gcog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To break, to burst asunder, to cleave, to split, blast, to violate ; To break, split ; 1. To break something hard into many pieces. 2. To recover from illness. 3. To not respect, not comply, not agree to. 4. To make fewer ; 1. To break, split, fragment. 2. To oppress, to suppress. 3. To reduce, deduct, lower. 4. To contradict, to break a pledge, to disobey ;
gcog	 verb-fut 	gcog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To break, to burst asunder, to cleave, to split, blast, to violate ; To break, split ; 1. To break something hard into many pieces. 2. To recover from illness. 3. To not respect, not comply, not agree to. 4. To make fewer ; 1. To break, split, fragment. 2. To oppress, to suppress. 3. To reduce, deduct, lower. 4. To contradict, to break a pledge, to disobey ;
gcong	 verb-pres 	gcong	   1. To excavate, wash out, undermine through the action of water. 2. To get faint, languid wearied in mind (Jä) ; Compare gshong
bshongs	 verb-past 	gcong	   1. To excavate, wash out, undermine through the action of water. 2. To get faint, languid wearied in mind (Jä) ; Compare gshong
	 verb-fut 	gcong	   1. To excavate, wash out, undermine through the action of water. 2. To get faint, languid wearied in mind (Jä) ; Compare gshong
gcod	 verb-pres 	gcod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cut, to cut asunder, to cut down, to fell; (variety of metaphorical uses) stop, hinder, judge, avoid, lock, to wake from sleep ; To hew or cut; to decide a case ; 1. To cut a long thing into a short one. 2. To settle, determine. 3. To follow pursue something gone earlier. 4. To examine a circumstance and come to have knowledge. 5. To sever, stop, cut off. 6. To quite (a bad habit &c.). 7. To block, obstruct. 8. To kill. 9. To break off a previous mutual connection. 10. To annihilate, get rid of. 11. To arrive at a goal. 12. To understand a profound meaning having analyzed and argued. 13. To block the end (of a hole &c.) by stuffing in something round ; 1. To cut, to shear, to shave off. 2. To kill. 3. To intervene, to interrupt. 3. To give up, to abandon, to stop, to break off. 5. To close, to block off, to impede. 6. To establish, to determine. 7. To implement, to execute, to exact. 8. To explore, to investigate, to pursue. 9. To differentiate, to discriminate, to scrutinize, to analyze, to discern. 10. To traverse, to arrive after a journey ;
bcad	 verb-past 	gcod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cut, to cut asunder, to cut down, to fell; (variety of metaphorical uses) stop, hinder, judge, avoid, lock, to wake from sleep ; To hew or cut; to decide a case ; 1. To cut a long thing into a short one. 2. To settle, determine. 3. To follow pursue something gone earlier. 4. To examine a circumstance and come to have knowledge. 5. To sever, stop, cut off. 6. To quite (a bad habit &c.). 7. To block, obstruct. 8. To kill. 9. To break off a previous mutual connection. 10. To annihilate, get rid of. 11. To arrive at a goal. 12. To understand a profound meaning having analyzed and argued. 13. To block the end (of a hole &c.) by stuffing in something round ; 1. To cut, to shear, to shave off. 2. To kill. 3. To intervene, to interrupt. 3. To give up, to abandon, to stop, to break off. 5. To close, to block off, to impede. 6. To establish, to determine. 7. To implement, to execute, to exact. 8. To explore, to investigate, to pursue. 9. To differentiate, to discriminate, to scrutinize, to analyze, to discern. 10. To traverse, to arrive after a journey ;
gcad	 verb-fut 	gcod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cut, to cut asunder, to cut down, to fell; (variety of metaphorical uses) stop, hinder, judge, avoid, lock, to wake from sleep ; To hew or cut; to decide a case ; 1. To cut a long thing into a short one. 2. To settle, determine. 3. To follow pursue something gone earlier. 4. To examine a circumstance and come to have knowledge. 5. To sever, stop, cut off. 6. To quite (a bad habit &c.). 7. To block, obstruct. 8. To kill. 9. To break off a previous mutual connection. 10. To annihilate, get rid of. 11. To arrive at a goal. 12. To understand a profound meaning having analyzed and argued. 13. To block the end (of a hole &c.) by stuffing in something round ; 1. To cut, to shear, to shave off. 2. To kill. 3. To intervene, to interrupt. 3. To give up, to abandon, to stop, to break off. 5. To close, to block off, to impede. 6. To establish, to determine. 7. To implement, to execute, to exact. 8. To explore, to investigate, to pursue. 9. To differentiate, to discriminate, to scrutinize, to analyze, to discern. 10. To traverse, to arrive after a journey ;
gcom	 verb-pres 	gcom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (archaic) To negotiate ;To promise, to make a promise or contract ;
gcoms	 verb-past 	gcom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (archaic) To negotiate ;To promise, to make a promise or contract ;
gcom	 verb-fut 	gcom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (archaic) To negotiate ;To promise, to make a promise or contract ;
gcor	 verb-pres 	gcor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To spread, scatter, disperse (Cs.) ; 1. To squeeze to press. To crowd, to throng. 2. To pull or force down, to wrest ; To maker closer, to cause to meet ; To squash, squish ; 1. To go to meet, to approach, to draw near. 2. To crush, to squeeze ;
bcar(d)	 verb-past 	gcor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To spread, scatter, disperse (Cs.) ; 1. To squeeze to press. To crowd, to throng. 2. To pull or force down, to wrest ; To maker closer, to cause to meet ; To squash, squish ; 1. To go to meet, to approach, to draw near. 2. To crush, to squeeze ;
gcar	 verb-fut 	gcor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To spread, scatter, disperse (Cs.) ; 1. To squeeze to press. To crowd, to throng. 2. To pull or force down, to wrest ; To maker closer, to cause to meet ; To squash, squish ; 1. To go to meet, to approach, to draw near. 2. To crush, to squeeze ;
gcol	 verb-pres 	gcol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To scatter, to disperse, to cause disruption ;
gcol	 verb-past 	gcol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To scatter, to disperse, to cause disruption ;
gcol	 verb-fut 	gcol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To scatter, to disperse, to cause disruption ;
bcas	 verb-pres 	bcas	Intransitive:    To have ;
bcas	 verb-past 	bcas	Intransitive:    To have ;
bcas	 verb-fut 	bcas	Intransitive:    To have ;
bcum	 verb-pres 	bcum	   (= ;
	 verb-past 	bcum	   (= ;
	 verb-fut 	bcum	   (= ;
bcem	 verb-pres 	bcem	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To chew (Medical, Jä) ; To crush with teeth; to squash or press together ; To chew ;
bcems	 verb-past 	bcem	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To chew (Medical, Jä) ; To crush with teeth; to squash or press together ; To chew ;
bcem	 verb-fut 	bcem	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To chew (Medical, Jä) ; To crush with teeth; to squash or press together ; To chew ;
gcer	 verb-pres 	bcer	Transitive: Involuntary:   1. To heap, to pile up; collect in one place. 2. To glare at. 3. (colloquial = ; (archaic) To heap, pile up ; To heap, to pile up ; Root bcer < *btyer < *bter (Beyer 1992: 84) .
bcer	 verb-past 	bcer	Transitive: Involuntary:   1. To heap, to pile up; collect in one place. 2. To glare at. 3. (colloquial = ; (archaic) To heap, pile up ; To heap, to pile up ; Root bcer < *btyer < *bter (Beyer 1992: 84) .
bcer	 verb-fut 	bcer	Transitive: Involuntary:   1. To heap, to pile up; collect in one place. 2. To glare at. 3. (colloquial = ; (archaic) To heap, pile up ; To heap, to pile up ; Root bcer < *btyer < *bter (Beyer 1992: 84) .
bco	 verb-pres 	bco	   (properly the root of the future of ;
bcos	 verb-past 	bco	   (properly the root of the future of ;
	 verb-fut 	bco	   (properly the root of the future of ;
bcog	 verb-pres 	bcog	   To reduce, cut down ;
	 verb-past 	bcog	   To reduce, cut down ;
	 verb-fut 	bcog	   To reduce, cut down ;
lcigs	 verb-pres 	lcigs	Transitive: Involuntary:  To be able, capable ;To understand, realize ;
lcigs	 verb-past 	lcigs	Transitive: Involuntary:  To be able, capable ;To understand, realize ;
lcigs	 verb-fut 	lcigs	Transitive: Involuntary:  To be able, capable ;To understand, realize ;
lceb	 verb-pres 	lceb	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To kill oneself, to commit suicide. 2. (used of insects that fly into a flame) ; To end ones own life ; To commit suicide (especially by jumping off a high place), to take one's own life ;
lcebs	 verb-past 	lceb	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To kill oneself, to commit suicide. 2. (used of insects that fly into a flame) ; To end ones own life ; To commit suicide (especially by jumping off a high place), to take one's own life ;
lceb	 verb-fut 	lceb	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To kill oneself, to commit suicide. 2. (used of insects that fly into a flame) ; To end ones own life ; To commit suicide (especially by jumping off a high place), to take one's own life ;
lcog	 verb-pres 	lcogs	Transitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be agitated, shaken, to tremble. 2. To be able ; To be able, capable ; To have time for or to have time to. 2. To handle, to be able to cope ;
lcogs	 verb-past 	lcogs	Transitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be agitated, shaken, to tremble. 2. To be able ; To be able, capable ; To have time for or to have time to. 2. To handle, to be able to cope ;
lcogs	 verb-fut 	lcogs	Transitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be agitated, shaken, to tremble. 2. To be able ; To be able, capable ; To have time for or to have time to. 2. To handle, to be able to cope ;
chas	 verb-pres 	cha	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To adorn, bedeck, wear (S. Lex). 2. (archaic) To go away, to start, to leave (a place) ; (;To go, to compose ; To go on a path ; To go, to set out, to depart ; Jä gives this as the normal verb 'go' in the West, the past and imperative song having replaced chas
chas	 verb-past 	cha	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To adorn, bedeck, wear (S. Lex). 2. (archaic) To go away, to start, to leave (a place) ; (;To go, to compose ; To go on a path ; To go, to set out, to depart ; Jä gives this as the normal verb 'go' in the West, the past and imperative song having replaced chas
cha	 verb-fut 	cha	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To adorn, bedeck, wear (S. Lex). 2. (archaic) To go away, to start, to leave (a place) ; (;To go, to compose ; To go on a path ; To go, to set out, to depart ; Jä gives this as the normal verb 'go' in the West, the past and imperative song having replaced chas
chags	 verb-pres 	chags	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be fond of, to be attached to, to love; to cling to. 2. To be begotten, produced ; To be attached to, to rest upon, to love, to lust ; To become attached to, to be loyal to etc. ; To become desirous, to feel loyal &c. ; 1. To be attached to, to be in love. 2. To be situated, to be settled ;
chags	 verb-past 	chags	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be fond of, to be attached to, to love; to cling to. 2. To be begotten, produced ; To be attached to, to rest upon, to love, to lust ; To become attached to, to be loyal to etc. ; To become desirous, to feel loyal &c. ; 1. To be attached to, to be in love. 2. To be situated, to be settled ;
chags	 verb-fut 	chags	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be fond of, to be attached to, to love; to cling to. 2. To be begotten, produced ; To be attached to, to rest upon, to love, to lust ; To become attached to, to be loyal to etc. ; To become desirous, to feel loyal &c. ; 1. To be attached to, to be in love. 2. To be situated, to be settled ;
chags	 verb-pres 	chags	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To become, to occur, to form, to be created, to come into being;
chags	 verb-past 	chags	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To become, to occur, to form, to be created, to come into being;
chags	 verb-fut 	chags	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To become, to occur, to form, to be created, to come into being;
	 verb-pres 	chags	Intransitive:   A loan of (something abs.) was made to (someone all.) ; Takeuchi appears to understand this verb as a specialization of the preceding.
chags 	 verb-past 	chags	Intransitive:   A loan of (something abs.) was made to (someone all.) ; Takeuchi appears to understand this verb as a specialization of the preceding.
	 verb-fut 	chags	Intransitive:   A loan of (something abs.) was made to (someone all.) ; Takeuchi appears to understand this verb as a specialization of the preceding.
	 verb-pres 	chags	Transitive:   (in Old Tibetan) To borrow (something abs.) from (someone abl.) ; As frequently occurs in Old Tibetan the allative can substitute for the ablative in this construction (Takeuchi 1995: 49).
chags 	 verb-past 	chags	Transitive:   (in Old Tibetan) To borrow (something abs.) from (someone abl.) ; As frequently occurs in Old Tibetan the allative can substitute for the ablative in this construction (Takeuchi 1995: 49).
	 verb-fut 	chags	Transitive:   (in Old Tibetan) To borrow (something abs.) from (someone abl.) ; As frequently occurs in Old Tibetan the allative can substitute for the ablative in this construction (Takeuchi 1995: 49).
chad	 verb-pres 	chad	   1. To open, to separate, liberate, to give out. 2. To promise, bind one's self. 3. To be descended from; to be born of or with (generally with ;
	 verb-past 	chad	   1. To open, to separate, liberate, to give out. 2. To promise, bind one's self. 3. To be descended from; to be born of or with (generally with ;
	 verb-fut 	chad	   1. To open, to separate, liberate, to give out. 2. To promise, bind one's self. 3. To be descended from; to be born of or with (generally with ;
chug	 verb-pres 	chug	 Involuntary:   To come under; to be included ; To allow ;To be able to distinguish, tell the difference ;
chugs	 verb-past 	chug	 Involuntary:   To come under; to be included ; To allow ;To be able to distinguish, tell the difference ;
chug	 verb-fut 	chug	 Involuntary:   To come under; to be included ; To allow ;To be able to distinguish, tell the difference ;
chud	 verb-pres 	chud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To get into, to enter, to put into, insert ; To get in; to be included, admitted ; 1. To fit, hold inside. 2. To congregate in. 3. To be certain, confident in mind. 4. To finish preparations ;1. To be included, to get into, to be inserted. 2. To understand. 3. To fit, to hold, to have room ; Compare 'jud
chud	 verb-past 	chud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To get into, to enter, to put into, insert ; To get in; to be included, admitted ; 1. To fit, hold inside. 2. To congregate in. 3. To be certain, confident in mind. 4. To finish preparations ;1. To be included, to get into, to be inserted. 2. To understand. 3. To fit, to hold, to have room ; Compare 'jud
'chud	 verb-fut 	chud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To get into, to enter, to put into, insert ; To get in; to be included, admitted ; 1. To fit, hold inside. 2. To congregate in. 3. To be certain, confident in mind. 4. To finish preparations ;1. To be included, to get into, to be inserted. 2. To understand. 3. To fit, to hold, to have room ; Compare 'jud
chun	 verb-pres 	chun	   To bunch or bundle together ;
	 verb-past 	chun	   To bunch or bundle together ;
	 verb-fut 	chun	   To bunch or bundle together ;
chub	 verb-pres 	chub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To understand, comprehend ;To be perfected, to have perfect comprehension, to comprehend, to master ;
chub	 verb-past 	chub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To understand, comprehend ;To be perfected, to have perfect comprehension, to comprehend, to master ;
chub	 verb-fut 	chub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To understand, comprehend ;To be perfected, to have perfect comprehension, to comprehend, to master ;
chum	 verb-pres 	chum	Intransitive:    To be frightened, also to shrink ; To shrink in fear, to cower ;
chum	 verb-past 	chum	Intransitive:    To be frightened, also to shrink ; To shrink in fear, to cower ;
chum	 verb-fut 	chum	Intransitive:    To be frightened, also to shrink ; To shrink in fear, to cower ;
che	 verb-pres 	che	 Involuntary:   [To be great] ;Root che < *thye < *the (Beyer 1992: 83).
ches	 verb-past 	che	 Involuntary:   [To be great] ;Root che < *thye < *the (Beyer 1992: 83).
	 verb-fut 	che	 Involuntary:   [To be great] ;Root che < *thye < *the (Beyer 1992: 83).
ches	 verb-pres 	ches	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To believe (used with ;
ches	 verb-past 	ches	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To believe (used with ;
ches	 verb-fut 	ches	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To believe (used with ;
chog	 verb-pres 	chog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be permitted, to be allowable (in books generally with the instrumental particle). 2. To suffice, to be sufficient ; To be permissible; to be allowed ; 1. To be sufficient, to suffice, to be enough. 2. To be suitable, to be fit for, to be ready, to be able, to be permitted, to be allowed ;
chog	 verb-past 	chog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be permitted, to be allowable (in books generally with the instrumental particle). 2. To suffice, to be sufficient ; To be permissible; to be allowed ; 1. To be sufficient, to suffice, to be enough. 2. To be suitable, to be fit for, to be ready, to be able, to be permitted, to be allowed ;
chog	 verb-fut 	chog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be permitted, to be allowable (in books generally with the instrumental particle). 2. To suffice, to be sufficient ; To be permissible; to be allowed ; 1. To be sufficient, to suffice, to be enough. 2. To be suitable, to be fit for, to be ready, to be able, to be permitted, to be allowed ;
	 verb-pres 	chog	  
	 verb-past 	chog	  
	 verb-fut 	chog	  
chod	 verb-pres 	chod	Transitive:  Involuntary:    1. To be cut off. 2. To be decided, settled fixed. 3. To cover over, to put into shade ; To cut off; to be decided ; 1. (of an action) To be able to perform it. 2. To cut off ;To be cut off, to be separated, to be broken off ;
chod	 verb-past 	chod	Transitive:  Involuntary:    1. To be cut off. 2. To be decided, settled fixed. 3. To cover over, to put into shade ; To cut off; to be decided ; 1. (of an action) To be able to perform it. 2. To cut off ;To be cut off, to be separated, to be broken off ;
chod	 verb-fut 	chod	Transitive:  Involuntary:    1. To be cut off. 2. To be decided, settled fixed. 3. To cover over, to put into shade ; To cut off; to be decided ; 1. (of an action) To be able to perform it. 2. To cut off ;To be cut off, to be separated, to be broken off ;
chom	 verb-pres 	chom	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be finished, accomplished (in West, Jä) ; To be subdued, to be vanquished, to be overcome, to be beaten down ;
chom	 verb-past 	chom	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be finished, accomplished (in West, Jä) ; To be subdued, to be vanquished, to be overcome, to be beaten down ;
chom	 verb-fut 	chom	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be finished, accomplished (in West, Jä) ; To be subdued, to be vanquished, to be overcome, to be beaten down ;
mchi	 verb-pres 	mchi	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (elegant) To come, to go ; To take refuge, shelter, to take asylum, to go for protection ; To go or come ; (archaic) To go ;
mchis	 verb-past 	mchi	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (elegant) To come, to go ; To take refuge, shelter, to take asylum, to go for protection ; To go or come ; (archaic) To go ;
mchi	 verb-fut 	mchi	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (elegant) To come, to go ; To take refuge, shelter, to take asylum, to go for protection ; To go or come ; (archaic) To go ;
mchid	 verb-pres 	mchid	   Possibly a variant of mched
mchid	 verb-past 	mchid	   Possibly a variant of mched
mchid	 verb-fut 	mchid	   Possibly a variant of mched
mchis	 verb-pres 	mchis	Intransitive:    To be; to have ; To exist, posses, to stay ; To be, to exist ; As a copula verb stems should not be differentiated.
mchis	 verb-past 	mchis	Intransitive:    To be; to have ; To exist, posses, to stay ; To be, to exist ; As a copula verb stems should not be differentiated.
mchis	 verb-fut 	mchis	Intransitive:    To be; to have ; To exist, posses, to stay ; To be, to exist ; As a copula verb stems should not be differentiated.
mched	 verb-pres 	mched	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To spread, gain ground, increase, multiply (seldom used except for fire,  plague &c.) ; To spread over, to increase ; To rapidly grow greater, spread ; To spread, to increase, to become widespread ;
mched	 verb-past 	mched	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To spread, gain ground, increase, multiply (seldom used except for fire,  plague &c.) ; To spread over, to increase ; To rapidly grow greater, spread ; To spread, to increase, to become widespread ;
mched	 verb-fut 	mched	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To spread, gain ground, increase, multiply (seldom used except for fire,  plague &c.) ; To spread over, to increase ; To rapidly grow greater, spread ; To spread, to increase, to become widespread ;
mchog	 verb-pres 	mchog	 Involuntary:   Probably a verbal use of the adjective 'excellent, fine'.
mchog	 verb-past 	mchog	 Involuntary:   Probably a verbal use of the adjective 'excellent, fine'.
mchog	 verb-fut 	mchog	 Involuntary:   Probably a verbal use of the adjective 'excellent, fine'.
mchong	 verb-pres 	mchong	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To leap, jump. 2. To bathe in water ; To jump; leap ; To leap ; To jump, to leap, to leap across ;
mchongs	 verb-past 	mchong	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To leap, jump. 2. To bathe in water ; To jump; leap ; To leap ; To jump, to leap, to leap across ;
mchong	 verb-fut 	mchong	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To leap, jump. 2. To bathe in water ; To jump; leap ; To leap ; To jump, to leap, to leap across ;
mchod	 verb-pres 	mchod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To honor, worship ; To offer, to worship; to respect or praise; to eat ; 1. To lay out food in remembrance of the dead. 2. To burn in a fire, or scatter to the sky, or spread on high food &c. in a superstitious liturgical procedure thought to make offerings to gods and demons.  3. (in Buddhism) To religiously offer food &c. ;To offer, to worship, to make offerings. 2. (honorific) To eat, to drink, to wear ;
mchod	 verb-past 	mchod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To honor, worship ; To offer, to worship; to respect or praise; to eat ; 1. To lay out food in remembrance of the dead. 2. To burn in a fire, or scatter to the sky, or spread on high food &c. in a superstitious liturgical procedure thought to make offerings to gods and demons.  3. (in Buddhism) To religiously offer food &c. ;To offer, to worship, to make offerings. 2. (honorific) To eat, to drink, to wear ;
mchod	 verb-fut 	mchod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To honor, worship ; To offer, to worship; to respect or praise; to eat ; 1. To lay out food in remembrance of the dead. 2. To burn in a fire, or scatter to the sky, or spread on high food &c. in a superstitious liturgical procedure thought to make offerings to gods and demons.  3. (in Buddhism) To religiously offer food &c. ;To offer, to worship, to make offerings. 2. (honorific) To eat, to drink, to wear ;
mchor	 verb-pres 	mchor	 Involuntary:   To be elegant, well appareled.; A verbal use of the adjective.
mchor(d)	 verb-past 	mchor	 Involuntary:   To be elegant, well appareled.; A verbal use of the adjective.
mchor	 verb-fut 	mchor	 Involuntary:   To be elegant, well appareled.; A verbal use of the adjective.
mchol	 verb-pres 	mchol	 Involuntary:  
mchol	 verb-past 	mchol	 Involuntary:  
mchol	 verb-fut 	mchol	 Involuntary:  
'chag	 verb-pres 	'chag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To tread, walk, move ; 1. To walk, to visit. 2. To wash a new cloth ; To step on, to walk ;1. To walk on, to step on, to treat, to visit, to travel. 2. To reduce, to slow down. 3. (dialect) To beat gently, to pat ;
bcags	 verb-past 	'chag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To tread, walk, move ; 1. To walk, to visit. 2. To wash a new cloth ; To step on, to walk ;1. To walk on, to step on, to treat, to visit, to travel. 2. To reduce, to slow down. 3. (dialect) To beat gently, to pat ;
bcag	 verb-fut 	'chag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To tread, walk, move ; 1. To walk, to visit. 2. To wash a new cloth ; To step on, to walk ;1. To walk on, to step on, to treat, to visit, to travel. 2. To reduce, to slow down. 3. (dialect) To beat gently, to pat ;
'chag	 verb-pres 	'chag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To break, be broken. To cut in twain, cleave, split. 2. To abate, beat down from the price ; To be broken ; 1. To break apart, be broken. 2. To not do what was to be done at a certain time [i.e. to be interrupted]. 3. To decrease, become less ; To break, to fragment, to be broken. 2. To be interrupted ;
chag	 verb-past 	'chag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To break, be broken. To cut in twain, cleave, split. 2. To abate, beat down from the price ; To be broken ; 1. To break apart, be broken. 2. To not do what was to be done at a certain time [i.e. to be interrupted]. 3. To decrease, become less ; To break, to fragment, to be broken. 2. To be interrupted ;
'chag	 verb-fut 	'chag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To break, be broken. To cut in twain, cleave, split. 2. To abate, beat down from the price ; To be broken ; 1. To break apart, be broken. 2. To not do what was to be done at a certain time [i.e. to be interrupted]. 3. To decrease, become less ; To break, to fragment, to be broken. 2. To be interrupted ;
'chag	 verb-pres 	'chag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. For one thing to be on top of another thing 2. To cover or stick to the outside of something ;
'chags	 verb-past 	'chag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. For one thing to be on top of another thing 2. To cover or stick to the outside of something ;
'chag	 verb-fut 	'chag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. For one thing to be on top of another thing 2. To cover or stick to the outside of something ;
bshags	 verb-pres 	'chags	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To explain, lay open. To confess, to acknowledge (Jä). 2. To be afraid of ; To confess, to lay one's heart open and speak ; 1. Having recognized and regretted past sins, to commit not to do them. 2. (of water &c.) To move [splash?] ; To confess, to admit ;
bshags	 verb-past 	'chags	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To explain, lay open. To confess, to acknowledge (Jä). 2. To be afraid of ; To confess, to lay one's heart open and speak ; 1. Having recognized and regretted past sins, to commit not to do them. 2. (of water &c.) To move [splash?] ; To confess, to admit ;
bshags	 verb-fut 	'chags	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To explain, lay open. To confess, to acknowledge (Jä). 2. To be afraid of ; To confess, to lay one's heart open and speak ; 1. Having recognized and regretted past sins, to commit not to do them. 2. (of water &c.) To move [splash?] ; To confess, to admit ;
'chang	 verb-pres 	'chang	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To hold, to take hold of, to keep, to bear. 2. To carry, wear. 3. To have, to assume (e.g. body of a goddess). 4. To bite, bark at ; 1. To hold with the hand. 2.  To hold in mind without forgetting ; To hold, to grasp to seize, to maintain, to assume. 2. To keep in mind, to retain ;
bcangs	 verb-past 	'chang	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To hold, to take hold of, to keep, to bear. 2. To carry, wear. 3. To have, to assume (e.g. body of a goddess). 4. To bite, bark at ; 1. To hold with the hand. 2.  To hold in mind without forgetting ; To hold, to grasp to seize, to maintain, to assume. 2. To keep in mind, to retain ;
bcang	 verb-fut 	'chang	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To hold, to take hold of, to keep, to bear. 2. To carry, wear. 3. To have, to assume (e.g. body of a goddess). 4. To bite, bark at ; 1. To hold with the hand. 2.  To hold in mind without forgetting ; To hold, to grasp to seize, to maintain, to assume. 2. To keep in mind, to retain ;
'chad	 verb-pres 	'chad	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To cut into pieces, to decay, to break off, separate, to break asunder. 2. To cease, end, stop, die ; To be broken off, be cut off; to discontinue; to be tired ; 1. For a long thing to break into pieces. 2. To separate into many sections. 3. To be omitted, discarded. 4. To degenerate, decay, cease to exit ; To be interrupted, to be broken, to be cut off.  2. To be incomplete, to be missing ; Compare (Takeuchi 1995: 223).
chad	 verb-past 	'chad	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To cut into pieces, to decay, to break off, separate, to break asunder. 2. To cease, end, stop, die ; To be broken off, be cut off; to discontinue; to be tired ; 1. For a long thing to break into pieces. 2. To separate into many sections. 3. To be omitted, discarded. 4. To degenerate, decay, cease to exit ; To be interrupted, to be broken, to be cut off.  2. To be incomplete, to be missing ; Compare (Takeuchi 1995: 223).
chad	 verb-fut 	'chad	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To cut into pieces, to decay, to break off, separate, to break asunder. 2. To cease, end, stop, die ; To be broken off, be cut off; to discontinue; to be tired ; 1. For a long thing to break into pieces. 2. To separate into many sections. 3. To be omitted, discarded. 4. To degenerate, decay, cease to exit ; To be interrupted, to be broken, to be cut off.  2. To be incomplete, to be missing ; Compare (Takeuchi 1995: 223).
'chad	 verb-pres 	'chad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To explain ; To speak, tell, mention ; 1. To explain verbally. 2. To give an commentary or exegesis. 3. To speak of good and evil ; To discourse, to teach, to explain, to speak ;
bshad	 verb-past 	'chad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To explain ; To speak, tell, mention ; 1. To explain verbally. 2. To give an commentary or exegesis. 3. To speak of good and evil ; To discourse, to teach, to explain, to speak ;
bshad	 verb-fut 	'chad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To explain ; To speak, tell, mention ; 1. To explain verbally. 2. To give an commentary or exegesis. 3. To speak of good and evil ; To discourse, to teach, to explain, to speak ;
'chab	 verb-pres 	'chab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To conceal, to keep secret ; To conceal, to hide ; To keep a misdeed secret ; To conceal, to hide, to keep secret ;
bcabs	 verb-past 	'chab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To conceal, to keep secret ; To conceal, to hide ; To keep a misdeed secret ; To conceal, to hide, to keep secret ;
bcab	 verb-fut 	'chab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To conceal, to keep secret ; To conceal, to hide ; To keep a misdeed secret ; To conceal, to hide, to keep secret ;
'cham	 verb-pres 	'cham	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To dance ; To dance; to take a walk ;
bcam	 verb-past 	'cham	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To dance ; To dance; to take a walk ;
'cham	 verb-fut 	'cham	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To dance ; To dance; to take a walk ;
'cham	 verb-pres 	'cham	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To accord, to agree ; To get along with, to agree with, to be compatible ; Root given as 'cham < *'thyam < 'tham 'grasp, embrace, join' (Beyer 1992: 84).
bcam	 verb-past 	'cham	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To accord, to agree ; To get along with, to agree with, to be compatible ; Root given as 'cham < *'thyam < 'tham 'grasp, embrace, join' (Beyer 1992: 84).
'chams	 verb-fut 	'cham	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To accord, to agree ; To get along with, to agree with, to be compatible ; Root given as 'cham < *'thyam < 'tham 'grasp, embrace, join' (Beyer 1992: 84).
'cha'	 verb-pres 	'cha'	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To draw up, prepare, construct, adjust. 2. (with ; 1. To make. 2. To vow, take an oath ; 1. To resolve, determine (rules &c.) 2. To make a place for staying, supporting. 3. To promise, take an oath ;1. To establish, to draw up, to construct, to invent, to prepare.  2. To uphold, to promise, to keep ; Compare 'chos
bcas	 verb-past 	'cha'	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To draw up, prepare, construct, adjust. 2. (with ; 1. To make. 2. To vow, take an oath ; 1. To resolve, determine (rules &c.) 2. To make a place for staying, supporting. 3. To promise, take an oath ;1. To establish, to draw up, to construct, to invent, to prepare.  2. To uphold, to promise, to keep ; Compare 'chos
bca'	 verb-fut 	'cha'	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To draw up, prepare, construct, adjust. 2. (with ; 1. To make. 2. To vow, take an oath ; 1. To resolve, determine (rules &c.) 2. To make a place for staying, supporting. 3. To promise, take an oath ;1. To establish, to draw up, to construct, to invent, to prepare.  2. To uphold, to promise, to keep ; Compare 'chos
'cha'	 verb-pres 	'cha'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be settled down, to be established, to be set up, to be made ;
bcas	 verb-past 	'cha'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be settled down, to be established, to be set up, to be made ;
bca'	 verb-fut 	'cha'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be settled down, to be established, to be set up, to be made ;
'cha'	 verb-pres 	'cha'	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To snap at, mangle, gnaw ;To chew, to gnaw, to bite ; To chew hard food with the teeth ;
'chos	 verb-past 	'cha'	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To snap at, mangle, gnaw ;To chew, to gnaw, to bite ; To chew hard food with the teeth ;
'cha'	 verb-fut 	'cha'	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To snap at, mangle, gnaw ;To chew, to gnaw, to bite ; To chew hard food with the teeth ;
'char	 verb-pres 	'char	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To arise, to start up, become visible, shine ; To rise, to start ; 1. (for the light of sun, moon, or stars) To spread, come out from the East. 2. (for the flower of a fruit tree) To bloom. 3. (of a new era) To arrive. 4. To know or remember. 5. To reflect in a mirror &c. ; 1. To arise, to emerge, to occur, to dawn, to bloom. 2. To become. 3. To recollect. 4. To be calculated, to be given, to be left (made in an arithmetic calculation) ;
shar	 verb-past 	'char	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To arise, to start up, become visible, shine ; To rise, to start ; 1. (for the light of sun, moon, or stars) To spread, come out from the East. 2. (for the flower of a fruit tree) To bloom. 3. (of a new era) To arrive. 4. To know or remember. 5. To reflect in a mirror &c. ; 1. To arise, to emerge, to occur, to dawn, to bloom. 2. To become. 3. To recollect. 4. To be calculated, to be given, to be left (made in an arithmetic calculation) ;
'char	 verb-fut 	'char	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To arise, to start up, become visible, shine ; To rise, to start ; 1. (for the light of sun, moon, or stars) To spread, come out from the East. 2. (for the flower of a fruit tree) To bloom. 3. (of a new era) To arrive. 4. To know or remember. 5. To reflect in a mirror &c. ; 1. To arise, to emerge, to occur, to dawn, to bloom. 2. To become. 3. To recollect. 4. To be calculated, to be given, to be left (made in an arithmetic calculation) ;
'chal	 verb-pres 	'chal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To loose one's wits, to be confused, to be in disorder. 2. To hesitate, fluctuate in mind, be irresolute. 3. To fornicate, to commit adultery ; To be out of order, to be disorderly or to be in a state of confusion ;1. To deteriorate in good activity of body and speech. 2. To deteriorate in understanding. 3. To be slanted (of a wall face) ;  To lose control, to be or become deranged. 2. (dialect) To tilt, to be unstable. 3. To be promiscuous, to fornicate ;
chal	 verb-past 	'chal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To loose one's wits, to be confused, to be in disorder. 2. To hesitate, fluctuate in mind, be irresolute. 3. To fornicate, to commit adultery ; To be out of order, to be disorderly or to be in a state of confusion ;1. To deteriorate in good activity of body and speech. 2. To deteriorate in understanding. 3. To be slanted (of a wall face) ;  To lose control, to be or become deranged. 2. (dialect) To tilt, to be unstable. 3. To be promiscuous, to fornicate ;
'chal	 verb-fut 	'chal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To loose one's wits, to be confused, to be in disorder. 2. To hesitate, fluctuate in mind, be irresolute. 3. To fornicate, to commit adultery ; To be out of order, to be disorderly or to be in a state of confusion ;1. To deteriorate in good activity of body and speech. 2. To deteriorate in understanding. 3. To be slanted (of a wall face) ;  To lose control, to be or become deranged. 2. (dialect) To tilt, to be unstable. 3. To be promiscuous, to fornicate ;
'chi	 verb-pres 	'chi	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To die, to expire, to go out (as light, fire) ; To die, to end one's life ; For a life to end ; 1. To die, to perish. 2. To expire, to die out, to perish ;
shi	 verb-past 	'chi	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To die, to expire, to go out (as light, fire) ; To die, to end one's life ; For a life to end ; 1. To die, to perish. 2. To expire, to die out, to perish ;
'chi	 verb-fut 	'chi	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To die, to expire, to go out (as light, fire) ; To die, to end one's life ; For a life to end ; 1. To die, to perish. 2. To expire, to die out, to perish ;
'ching	 verb-pres 	'ching	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bind, tie up, make fast, exorcise ; To tie with a rope, bind ; 1. To tie (a rope &c.). 2. To be a rule, standard ; To bind, to tie, to fasten ;
bcings	 verb-past 	'ching	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bind, tie up, make fast, exorcise ; To tie with a rope, bind ; 1. To tie (a rope &c.). 2. To be a rule, standard ; To bind, to tie, to fasten ;
bcing	 verb-fut 	'ching	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bind, tie up, make fast, exorcise ; To tie with a rope, bind ; 1. To tie (a rope &c.). 2. To be a rule, standard ; To bind, to tie, to fasten ;
'ching	 verb-pres 	'ching	   To be tied, fasted; to be unruly ;
chings	 verb-past 	'ching	   To be tied, fasted; to be unruly ;
'ching	 verb-fut 	'ching	   To be tied, fasted; to be unruly ;
'chib	 verb-pres 	'chib	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (respectful) To mount a horse or carriage ; To ride a horse, &c. ; (honorific) to ride a horse ;
bcibs	 verb-past 	'chib	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (respectful) To mount a horse or carriage ; To ride a horse, &c. ; (honorific) to ride a horse ;
bcib	 verb-fut 	'chib	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (respectful) To mount a horse or carriage ; To ride a horse, &c. ; (honorific) to ride a horse ;
bcir	 verb-pres 	'chir	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To press, squeeze ; To squeeze, press, interrogate ; To squeeze, to press, to presng out ;Root chir < *tshyir < *tshir (Beyer 1992: 83).
bcir(d)	 verb-past 	'chir	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To press, squeeze ; To squeeze, press, interrogate ; To squeeze, to press, to presng out ;Root chir < *tshyir < *tshir (Beyer 1992: 83).
bcir	 verb-fut 	'chir	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To press, squeeze ; To squeeze, press, interrogate ; To squeeze, to press, to presng out ;Root chir < *tshyir < *tshir (Beyer 1992: 83).
'chir	 verb-pres 	'chir	   To go in between; to be pressed ;
chir	 verb-past 	'chir	   To go in between; to be pressed ;
'chir	 verb-fut 	'chir	   To go in between; to be pressed ;
'chu	 verb-pres 	'chu	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To scoop up, to ladle (water), to irrigate, to water ; 1. To draw out water, to irrigate. 2. To distill (Situ 75) ; To draw out water, to fetch water ; To pick up sand, water &c. with a ladle &c. and pour it into a vessel ;  1. To fetch with a vessel. 2. To loose appetite. 3. (archaic) To plunder ; Related to the noun bcud
bcus	 verb-past 	'chu	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To scoop up, to ladle (water), to irrigate, to water ; 1. To draw out water, to irrigate. 2. To distill (Situ 75) ; To draw out water, to fetch water ; To pick up sand, water &c. with a ladle &c. and pour it into a vessel ;  1. To fetch with a vessel. 2. To loose appetite. 3. (archaic) To plunder ; Related to the noun bcud
bcu	 verb-fut 	'chu	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To scoop up, to ladle (water), to irrigate, to water ; 1. To draw out water, to irrigate. 2. To distill (Situ 75) ; To draw out water, to fetch water ; To pick up sand, water &c. with a ladle &c. and pour it into a vessel ;  1. To fetch with a vessel. 2. To loose appetite. 3. (archaic) To plunder ; Related to the noun bcud
'chu	 verb-pres 	'chu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be twisted, distorted ; 1. To be crooked, to be distorted, twisted. 2. To lose one's appetite ;  1. To loose appetite. 2. To become crooked or in the shape of a twisted conch ;To be or get twisted, to sprain, to be or get sprained ;
'chus	 verb-past 	'chu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be twisted, distorted ; 1. To be crooked, to be distorted, twisted. 2. To lose one's appetite ;  1. To loose appetite. 2. To become crooked or in the shape of a twisted conch ;To be or get twisted, to sprain, to be or get sprained ;
'chu	 verb-fut 	'chu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be twisted, distorted ; 1. To be crooked, to be distorted, twisted. 2. To lose one's appetite ;  1. To loose appetite. 2. To become crooked or in the shape of a twisted conch ;To be or get twisted, to sprain, to be or get sprained ;
'chug	 verb-pres 	'chug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be mistaken, to be in a wrong direction ; To make a mistake, to be confused (similar to ; To make a mistake, blunder, go wrong (alternative orthography of ; Compare 'phyug
'chugs	 verb-past 	'chug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be mistaken, to be in a wrong direction ; To make a mistake, to be confused (similar to ; To make a mistake, blunder, go wrong (alternative orthography of ; Compare 'phyug
'chug	 verb-fut 	'chug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be mistaken, to be in a wrong direction ; To make a mistake, to be confused (similar to ; To make a mistake, blunder, go wrong (alternative orthography of ; Compare 'phyug
'chugs	 verb-pres 	'chugs	Transitive:   (archaic) To settle a dispute ;
	 verb-past 	'chugs	Transitive:   (archaic) To settle a dispute ;
	 verb-fut 	'chugs	Transitive:   (archaic) To settle a dispute ;
'chun	 verb-pres 	'chun	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be tamed, subdued, made to yield ; To be under control, to be subdued, to be able to contain ; To become tamed, to become disciplined ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
chun	 verb-past 	'chun	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be tamed, subdued, made to yield ; To be under control, to be subdued, to be able to contain ; To become tamed, to become disciplined ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
'chun	 verb-fut 	'chun	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be tamed, subdued, made to yield ; To be under control, to be subdued, to be able to contain ; To become tamed, to become disciplined ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
'chum	 verb-pres 	'chum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wish, to long for ; 1. To be attached to. 2. To be frightened, to contract, to become small ; To be attached to, to be fond of, to be addicted to. 2. To shrink, to shrivel ;
'chums	 verb-past 	'chum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wish, to long for ; 1. To be attached to. 2. To be frightened, to contract, to become small ; To be attached to, to be fond of, to be addicted to. 2. To shrink, to shrivel ;
'chum	 verb-fut 	'chum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wish, to long for ; 1. To be attached to. 2. To be frightened, to contract, to become small ; To be attached to, to be fond of, to be addicted to. 2. To shrink, to shrivel ;
'chums	 verb-pres 	'chums	Transitive:    1. To enforce a given command by force. 2. Having established authority to make someone listen ;
'chums	 verb-past 	'chums	Transitive:    1. To enforce a given command by force. 2. Having established authority to make someone listen ;
'chums	 verb-fut 	'chums	Transitive:    1. To enforce a given command by force. 2. Having established authority to make someone listen ;
'chur	 verb-pres 	'chur	Intransitive:    (archaic) To arrive ;
	 verb-past 	'chur	Intransitive:    (archaic) To arrive ;
	 verb-fut 	'chur	Intransitive:    (archaic) To arrive ;
'chur(d)	 verb-pres 	'chur(d)	   To be able to contain, to suffice in capacity ; Compare gcur
chur	 verb-past 	'chur(d)	   To be able to contain, to suffice in capacity ; Compare gcur
'chur	 verb-fut 	'chur(d)	   To be able to contain, to suffice in capacity ; Compare gcur
'che	 verb-pres 	'che	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To attest, to promise ; To promise ; To promise, to make a promise, to affirm ;
'ches	 verb-past 	'che	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To attest, to promise ; To promise ; To promise, to make a promise, to affirm ;
'che	 verb-fut 	'che	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To attest, to promise ; To promise ; To promise, to make a promise, to affirm ;
'chel	 verb-pres 	'chel	   To fixate (on), to be fixated (on) ;
chel	 verb-past 	'chel	   To fixate (on), to be fixated (on) ;
chel	 verb-fut 	'chel	   To fixate (on), to be fixated (on) ;
'chor	 verb-pres 	'chor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To escape, flee, steal away. 2. To flow out ; To be let loose (a dog, &c.). 2. To lose, be stolen. 3. To escape, run away ;1. To escape from bondage. 2. To deteriorate, become weak. 3. To be unable to protect, or block. 4. To be unable to control the sense faculties ; 1. To be robbed of, to be lost, to be deprived. 2. To make a slip ;
shor(d)	 verb-past 	'chor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To escape, flee, steal away. 2. To flow out ; To be let loose (a dog, &c.). 2. To lose, be stolen. 3. To escape, run away ;1. To escape from bondage. 2. To deteriorate, become weak. 3. To be unable to protect, or block. 4. To be unable to control the sense faculties ; 1. To be robbed of, to be lost, to be deprived. 2. To make a slip ;
shor	 verb-fut 	'chor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To escape, flee, steal away. 2. To flow out ; To be let loose (a dog, &c.). 2. To lose, be stolen. 3. To escape, run away ;1. To escape from bondage. 2. To deteriorate, become weak. 3. To be unable to protect, or block. 4. To be unable to control the sense faculties ; 1. To be robbed of, to be lost, to be deprived. 2. To make a slip ;
'chor	 verb-pres 	'chor	   To pursue, chase, go after ;
bshor	 verb-past 	'chor	   To pursue, chase, go after ;
gshor	 verb-fut 	'chor	   To pursue, chase, go after ;
'chol	 verb-pres 	'chol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To entrust, lay open, commit a thing to another's charge, to make, appoint ; To entrust, rely upon ; 1. To give something to another, and have him take care of it for some time. 2. To request another to attend to one's affairs in one's stead. 3. To have another attend to an affair having given something to another ;  To entrust, to charge with, to leave in someone's charge, to deposit ;
bcol(d)	 verb-past 	'chol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To entrust, lay open, commit a thing to another's charge, to make, appoint ; To entrust, rely upon ; 1. To give something to another, and have him take care of it for some time. 2. To request another to attend to one's affairs in one's stead. 3. To have another attend to an affair having given something to another ;  To entrust, to charge with, to leave in someone's charge, to deposit ;
bcol	 verb-fut 	'chol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To entrust, lay open, commit a thing to another's charge, to make, appoint ; To entrust, rely upon ; 1. To give something to another, and have him take care of it for some time. 2. To request another to attend to one's affairs in one's stead. 3. To have another attend to an affair having given something to another ;  To entrust, to charge with, to leave in someone's charge, to deposit ;
'chol(d)	 verb-pres 	'chol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be disorderly, to be in a state of confusion ; Similar in meaning to ; To be disorderly, to be mistaken, to be confused. 2. To totter, to stagger ; Compare 'chal
chol	 verb-past 	'chol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be disorderly, to be in a state of confusion ; Similar in meaning to ; To be disorderly, to be mistaken, to be confused. 2. To totter, to stagger ; Compare 'chal
'chol	 verb-fut 	'chol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be disorderly, to be in a state of confusion ; Similar in meaning to ; To be disorderly, to be mistaken, to be confused. 2. To totter, to stagger ; Compare 'chal
'chos	 verb-pres 	'chos	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make, make ready, prepare, construct, build ; To make, manufacture, build ; To make, prepare, make ready ; To make, create ; Compare 'cha'
bcos	 verb-past 	'chos	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make, make ready, prepare, construct, build ; To make, manufacture, build ; To make, prepare, make ready ; To make, create ; Compare 'cha'
bco	 verb-fut 	'chos	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make, make ready, prepare, construct, build ; To make, manufacture, build ; To make, prepare, make ready ; To make, create ; Compare 'cha'
'chos	 verb-pres 	'chos	   Doubtless identical to the previous.
bcos	 verb-past 	'chos	   Doubtless identical to the previous.
bca'	 verb-fut 	'chos	   Doubtless identical to the previous.
mjol	 verb-pres 	mjal	Transitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) To meet, interview, wait on, pay ones respects ; To have interviews, meet ; (honorific) To meet ; (honorific) To meet, see, visit ;
mjal(d)	 verb-past 	mjal	Transitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) To meet, interview, wait on, pay ones respects ; To have interviews, meet ; (honorific) To meet ; (honorific) To meet, see, visit ;
mjal	 verb-fut 	mjal	Transitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) To meet, interview, wait on, pay ones respects ; To have interviews, meet ; (honorific) To meet ; (honorific) To meet, see, visit ;
mjed	 verb-pres 	mjed	Intransitive:    To cause to be intolerable, to be intolerable ; To be irritating or unbearable ;
mjed	 verb-past 	mjed	Intransitive:    To cause to be intolerable, to be intolerable ; To be irritating or unbearable ;
mjed	 verb-fut 	mjed	Intransitive:    To cause to be intolerable, to be intolerable ; To be irritating or unbearable ;
'jag	 verb-pres 	'jag	   (Sch.) To establish, settle, fix, found ;
jags	 verb-past 	'jag	   (Sch.) To establish, settle, fix, found ;
	 verb-fut 	'jag	   (Sch.) To establish, settle, fix, found ;
'jags	 verb-pres 	'jags	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be settled, become calm ; 1. To remain in the mind, to remember. 2. (honorific) to be seated. 3. To settle, to calm down, to become still, to remain unchanged ;
'jags	 verb-past 	'jags	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be settled, become calm ; 1. To remain in the mind, to remember. 2. (honorific) to be seated. 3. To settle, to calm down, to become still, to remain unchanged ;
'jags	 verb-fut 	'jags	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be settled, become calm ; 1. To remain in the mind, to remember. 2. (honorific) to be seated. 3. To settle, to calm down, to become still, to remain unchanged ;
'jags	 verb-pres 	'jags	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To remember, keep in mind ; (A. K. 1. 24) 1. 1o apprehend, to grasp (with the understanding); to impress (generally with ; To keep in mind, to memorize ; To bear in mind, hold in mind ;
bcags	 verb-past 	'jags	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To remember, keep in mind ; (A. K. 1. 24) 1. 1o apprehend, to grasp (with the understanding); to impress (generally with ; To keep in mind, to memorize ; To bear in mind, hold in mind ;
gcags	 verb-fut 	'jags	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To remember, keep in mind ; (A. K. 1. 24) 1. 1o apprehend, to grasp (with the understanding); to impress (generally with ; To keep in mind, to memorize ; To bear in mind, hold in mind ;
'jags	 verb-pres 	'jags	   (in Central Tibet) To give, to make a present, to formally present (Georgi's Alphabetum Tibetanum ) ;
	 verb-past 	'jags	   (in Central Tibet) To give, to make a present, to formally present (Georgi's Alphabetum Tibetanum ) ;
	 verb-fut 	'jags	   (in Central Tibet) To give, to make a present, to formally present (Georgi's Alphabetum Tibetanum ) ;
'jang	 verb-pres 	'jang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To devour, swallow (Sch.) ; To have diarrhea. 2. (archaic) To eat, to drink ;
'jang	 verb-past 	'jang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To devour, swallow (Sch.) ; To have diarrhea. 2. (archaic) To eat, to drink ;
'jang	 verb-fut 	'jang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To devour, swallow (Sch.) ; To have diarrhea. 2. (archaic) To eat, to drink ;
'jab	 verb-pres 	'jab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To sneak, slink, creep privily. 2. To lie in wait, in ambush ; To hide, conceal ; To act as to not be noticed by another ; To hide, ambush, lie in wait for ;
bzhabs	 verb-past 	'jab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To sneak, slink, creep privily. 2. To lie in wait, in ambush ; To hide, conceal ; To act as to not be noticed by another ; To hide, ambush, lie in wait for ;
bzhab	 verb-fut 	'jab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To sneak, slink, creep privily. 2. To lie in wait, in ambush ; To hide, conceal ; To act as to not be noticed by another ; To hide, ambush, lie in wait for ;
'jam	 verb-pres 	'jam	 Involuntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]};  To advise on religious practice, to give advice at the time of admission into the higher order of Buddhist monk-hood. To contain, subsume ; 1. To be soft, smooth, quiet. 2. To cool down, become cold ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}[DS] 
'jam	 verb-past 	'jam	 Involuntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]};  To advise on religious practice, to give advice at the time of admission into the higher order of Buddhist monk-hood. To contain, subsume ; 1. To be soft, smooth, quiet. 2. To cool down, become cold ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}[DS] 
gzhams	 verb-fut 	'jam	 Involuntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]};  To advise on religious practice, to give advice at the time of admission into the higher order of Buddhist monk-hood. To contain, subsume ; 1. To be soft, smooth, quiet. 2. To cool down, become cold ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}[DS] 
'ja'	 verb-pres 	'ja'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bespeak, to concert, to confederate (Sch.) ; To be maimed in feet or hands, to become lame, to be a cripple ; To go lame ; To be lame, disabled, crippled, weak ;
zha	 verb-past 	'ja'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bespeak, to concert, to confederate (Sch.) ; To be maimed in feet or hands, to become lame, to be a cripple ; To go lame ; To be lame, disabled, crippled, weak ;
'ja'	 verb-fut 	'ja'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bespeak, to concert, to confederate (Sch.) ; To be maimed in feet or hands, to become lame, to be a cripple ; To go lame ; To be lame, disabled, crippled, weak ;
'jar	 verb-pres 	'jar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To stick together, to cohere ; To go nearer, be nearer; to touch ; (archaic) To patch, mend ; 1. To hide. 2. To be close to, to associate with, to hand out with. 3. (archaic) To patch, to mend ;
'jar(d)	 verb-past 	'jar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To stick together, to cohere ; To go nearer, be nearer; to touch ; (archaic) To patch, mend ; 1. To hide. 2. To be close to, to associate with, to hand out with. 3. (archaic) To patch, to mend ;
'jar	 verb-fut 	'jar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To stick together, to cohere ; To go nearer, be nearer; to touch ; (archaic) To patch, mend ; 1. To hide. 2. To be close to, to associate with, to hand out with. 3. (archaic) To patch, to mend ;
'jal	 verb-pres 	'jal	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To weigh, measure, appraise. 2. To tax. 3. To pay, pay back, repay. 4. To ponder.  ; 1. To repay, give in return. 2. To measure, estimate, ascertain ; 1. To account for whether a thing is heavy or light, long or short, many or few etc, with instruments. 2.  To analyze and understand. 3. To pay (e.g. taxes, a loan) ; 1. To measure, weigh. 2. To appraise, examine. 3. To repay, to return ;
bcal	 verb-past 	'jal	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To weigh, measure, appraise. 2. To tax. 3. To pay, pay back, repay. 4. To ponder.  ; 1. To repay, give in return. 2. To measure, estimate, ascertain ; 1. To account for whether a thing is heavy or light, long or short, many or few etc, with instruments. 2.  To analyze and understand. 3. To pay (e.g. taxes, a loan) ; 1. To measure, weigh. 2. To appraise, examine. 3. To repay, to return ;
gzhal	 verb-fut 	'jal	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To weigh, measure, appraise. 2. To tax. 3. To pay, pay back, repay. 4. To ponder.  ; 1. To repay, give in return. 2. To measure, estimate, ascertain ; 1. To account for whether a thing is heavy or light, long or short, many or few etc, with instruments. 2.  To analyze and understand. 3. To pay (e.g. taxes, a loan) ; 1. To measure, weigh. 2. To appraise, examine. 3. To repay, to return ;
'jig	 verb-pres 	'jig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be lost, undermined, to decay, perish ; To ruin, decay, to be destroyed, perish ; To deteriorate, become nonexistent ; To perish, decay, disintegrate, come to ruin ; See (Beckwith 1999)
zhig	 verb-past 	'jig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be lost, undermined, to decay, perish ; To ruin, decay, to be destroyed, perish ; To deteriorate, become nonexistent ; To perish, decay, disintegrate, come to ruin ; See (Beckwith 1999)
gzhig	 verb-fut 	'jig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be lost, undermined, to decay, perish ; To ruin, decay, to be destroyed, perish ; To deteriorate, become nonexistent ; To perish, decay, disintegrate, come to ruin ; See (Beckwith 1999)
'jig	 verb-pres 	'jig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (Rdo. 46) To destroy, to devastate, to devour, to abolish, to do away with, dissolve (an encampment) ; To destroy, break into pieces ; 1. To tear down. 2. To not adhere to, not support; to destroy, ruin, annihilate: 3. (dialect) To undo, untie ; To destroy, exterminate, demolish ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Skorupski 2001) ."]}
bshig	 verb-past 	'jig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (Rdo. 46) To destroy, to devastate, to devour, to abolish, to do away with, dissolve (an encampment) ; To destroy, break into pieces ; 1. To tear down. 2. To not adhere to, not support; to destroy, ruin, annihilate: 3. (dialect) To undo, untie ; To destroy, exterminate, demolish ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Skorupski 2001) ."]}
gzhig	 verb-fut 	'jig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (Rdo. 46) To destroy, to devastate, to devour, to abolish, to do away with, dissolve (an encampment) ; To destroy, break into pieces ; 1. To tear down. 2. To not adhere to, not support; to destroy, ruin, annihilate: 3. (dialect) To undo, untie ; To destroy, exterminate, demolish ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Skorupski 2001) ."]}
'jigs	 verb-pres 	'jigs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fear, be afraid, be terrified ; To be terrified, to be afraid of ; To be afraid, to fear, to be terrorized ; the supine is 'jigs su
'jigs	 verb-past 	'jigs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fear, be afraid, be terrified ; To be terrified, to be afraid of ; To be afraid, to fear, to be terrorized ; the supine is 'jigs su
'jigs	 verb-fut 	'jigs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fear, be afraid, be terrified ; To be terrified, to be afraid of ; To be afraid, to fear, to be terrorized ; the supine is 'jigs su
'jib	 verb-pres 	'jib	  
'jibs	 verb-past 	'jib	  
'jib	 verb-fut 	'jib	  
'jib	 verb-pres 	'jib	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To suck. 2. To taste, relish ; To such juice, to suck with lips ; 1. To draw (water &c.) inside with the mouth or nose. 2. To soak up ; To suck ;
bzhibs	 verb-past 	'jib	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To suck. 2. To taste, relish ; To such juice, to suck with lips ; 1. To draw (water &c.) inside with the mouth or nose. 2. To soak up ; To suck ;
gzhib	 verb-fut 	'jib	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To suck. 2. To taste, relish ; To such juice, to suck with lips ; 1. To draw (water &c.) inside with the mouth or nose. 2. To soak up ; To suck ;
'jil	 verb-pres 	'jil	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To expel, eject, remove, turn off ; To take out, remove, give up ; To put out (a fire) ; To expel, to shed, to banish, to extract, to remove ;
bcil(d)	 verb-past 	'jil	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To expel, eject, remove, turn off ; To take out, remove, give up ; To put out (a fire) ; To expel, to shed, to banish, to extract, to remove ;
gzhil	 verb-fut 	'jil	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To expel, eject, remove, turn off ; To take out, remove, give up ; To put out (a fire) ; To expel, to shed, to banish, to extract, to remove ;
'jil	 verb-pres 	'jil	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To shed blood ; To be damaged ;
'jil	 verb-past 	'jil	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To shed blood ; To be damaged ;
'jil	 verb-fut 	'jil	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To shed blood ; To be damaged ;
'ju	 verb-pres 	'ju	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   (used with ; 1. To hold (with the hand). 2. (for a dog) To bite. 3. To save, spare ; To hold, catch, grasp, seize ;
'jus	 verb-past 	'ju	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   (used with ; 1. To hold (with the hand). 2. (for a dog) To bite. 3. To save, spare ; To hold, catch, grasp, seize ;
'ju	 verb-fut 	'ju	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   (used with ; 1. To hold (with the hand). 2. (for a dog) To bite. 3. To save, spare ; To hold, catch, grasp, seize ;
'ju	 verb-pres 	'ju	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To digest ;
zhu	 verb-past 	'ju	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To digest ;
'ju	 verb-fut 	'ju	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To digest ;
zhu	 verb-pres 	'ju	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To melt, digest ; To liquefy, melt down ; To boil, liquefy, having set a fire ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC"]}
bzhus	 verb-past 	'ju	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To melt, digest ; To liquefy, melt down ; To boil, liquefy, having set a fire ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC"]}
bzhu	 verb-fut 	'ju	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To melt, digest ; To liquefy, melt down ; To boil, liquefy, having set a fire ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC"]}
'jug	 verb-pres 	'jug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To go into, enter (generally used with terminative case, but sometimes occurs with ; 1. To enter or practice. 2. To follow or go ; 1. To affix (a letter to a syllable). 2. To affix (a grammatical morpheme to a syllable). 3. To go, arrive ; To enter, to join, to set out, to embark on ;
zhugs	 verb-past 	'jug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To go into, enter (generally used with terminative case, but sometimes occurs with ; 1. To enter or practice. 2. To follow or go ; 1. To affix (a letter to a syllable). 2. To affix (a grammatical morpheme to a syllable). 3. To go, arrive ; To enter, to join, to set out, to embark on ;
zhug	 verb-fut 	'jug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To go into, enter (generally used with terminative case, but sometimes occurs with ; 1. To enter or practice. 2. To follow or go ; 1. To affix (a letter to a syllable). 2. To affix (a grammatical morpheme to a syllable). 3. To go, arrive ; To enter, to join, to set out, to embark on ;
'jug	 verb-pres 	'jug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To put into, insert, infuse. inject. 2. To appoint, constitute, manifest, place out, settle. 3. To command, induce. 4. To permit, allow suffer (in sense 3 and 4 with the terminative case of root of verb [sic]) ; 1. To put in, insert, to admit. 2. To cause to enter to make or to allow to do ; 1. To make go inside from outside (e.g. sheep). 2. To put a thing in its container. 3. To be put in order, series (e.g. a student into a particular class). 4. An auxiliary verb indicating the double causative. 5  (when prefixed by ; 1. To insert, to place in, to put in, to infuse, to inject. 2. To introduce, to induce, to admit into, to induct, cause to enter. 3. To engage in, to participate, to undertake. 4. To encourage, to let, to permit, to allow, to cause to ; Root given as jug < *dzyug < dzug  cf. 'dzugs (Beyer 1992: 84).
bcug	 verb-past 	'jug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To put into, insert, infuse. inject. 2. To appoint, constitute, manifest, place out, settle. 3. To command, induce. 4. To permit, allow suffer (in sense 3 and 4 with the terminative case of root of verb [sic]) ; 1. To put in, insert, to admit. 2. To cause to enter to make or to allow to do ; 1. To make go inside from outside (e.g. sheep). 2. To put a thing in its container. 3. To be put in order, series (e.g. a student into a particular class). 4. An auxiliary verb indicating the double causative. 5  (when prefixed by ; 1. To insert, to place in, to put in, to infuse, to inject. 2. To introduce, to induce, to admit into, to induct, cause to enter. 3. To engage in, to participate, to undertake. 4. To encourage, to let, to permit, to allow, to cause to ; Root given as jug < *dzyug < dzug  cf. 'dzugs (Beyer 1992: 84).
gzhug	 verb-fut 	'jug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To put into, insert, infuse. inject. 2. To appoint, constitute, manifest, place out, settle. 3. To command, induce. 4. To permit, allow suffer (in sense 3 and 4 with the terminative case of root of verb [sic]) ; 1. To put in, insert, to admit. 2. To cause to enter to make or to allow to do ; 1. To make go inside from outside (e.g. sheep). 2. To put a thing in its container. 3. To be put in order, series (e.g. a student into a particular class). 4. An auxiliary verb indicating the double causative. 5  (when prefixed by ; 1. To insert, to place in, to put in, to infuse, to inject. 2. To introduce, to induce, to admit into, to induct, cause to enter. 3. To engage in, to participate, to undertake. 4. To encourage, to let, to permit, to allow, to cause to ; Root given as jug < *dzyug < dzug  cf. 'dzugs (Beyer 1992: 84).
'jud	 verb-pres 	'jud	Transitive:    [To go into, enter]; (archaic) To enter, put inside ; (archaic) To cause to enter, to insert, to induce ; Compare chud
	 verb-past 	'jud	Transitive:    [To go into, enter]; (archaic) To enter, put inside ; (archaic) To cause to enter, to insert, to induce ; Compare chud
	 verb-fut 	'jud	Transitive:    [To go into, enter]; (archaic) To enter, put inside ; (archaic) To cause to enter, to insert, to induce ; Compare chud
'jun	 verb-pres 	'jun	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (acc. Cs.) To subdue, make tame. To make confess. To make soft, soften. To punish (by words or blows). To convert ; To subdue, control, subjugate, restrain ; To make (someone or something) obey a command, using force ;  1. To subdue, to take, to discipline, to shape. 2. (archaic) To keep in mind ;
bcun(d)	 verb-past 	'jun	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (acc. Cs.) To subdue, make tame. To make confess. To make soft, soften. To punish (by words or blows). To convert ; To subdue, control, subjugate, restrain ; To make (someone or something) obey a command, using force ;  1. To subdue, to take, to discipline, to shape. 2. (archaic) To keep in mind ;
gcun	 verb-fut 	'jun	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (acc. Cs.) To subdue, make tame. To make confess. To make soft, soften. To punish (by words or blows). To convert ; To subdue, control, subjugate, restrain ; To make (someone or something) obey a command, using force ;  1. To subdue, to take, to discipline, to shape. 2. (archaic) To keep in mind ;
'jun	 verb-pres 	'jun	Transitive:    After having made a promise, or done a fault, to deny ;
'jun	 verb-past 	'jun	Transitive:    After having made a promise, or done a fault, to deny ;
'jun	 verb-fut 	'jun	Transitive:    After having made a promise, or done a fault, to deny ;
'jum	 verb-pres 	'jum	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   Properly to cause to shudder, but frequently as neutral verb to contract ; To make smaller, contract ; To become shorter ; 1. To contract, to shrink. 2. (archaic) To reduce pride ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
bcums	 verb-past 	'jum	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   Properly to cause to shudder, but frequently as neutral verb to contract ; To make smaller, contract ; To become shorter ; 1. To contract, to shrink. 2. (archaic) To reduce pride ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
gzhum	 verb-fut 	'jum	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   Properly to cause to shudder, but frequently as neutral verb to contract ; To make smaller, contract ; To become shorter ; 1. To contract, to shrink. 2. (archaic) To reduce pride ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
'jur	 verb-pres 	'jur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To draw tight. 2. (= ; To draw tightly, to channel, to discipline, control ; To extrude, draw out (a metal wire) ;  1. To interrogate, to discipline. 2. To draw through or into. 3. (archaic) to arrive ; Compare gcur
bcur(d)	 verb-past 	'jur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To draw tight. 2. (= ; To draw tightly, to channel, to discipline, control ; To extrude, draw out (a metal wire) ;  1. To interrogate, to discipline. 2. To draw through or into. 3. (archaic) to arrive ; Compare gcur
bcur	 verb-fut 	'jur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To draw tight. 2. (= ; To draw tightly, to channel, to discipline, control ; To extrude, draw out (a metal wire) ;  1. To interrogate, to discipline. 2. To draw through or into. 3. (archaic) to arrive ; Compare gcur
'jur	 verb-pres 	'jur	Intransitive:    For a part of something to emerge or protrude outside from a hole ;
'jur	 verb-past 	'jur	Intransitive:    For a part of something to emerge or protrude outside from a hole ;
'jur	 verb-fut 	'jur	Intransitive:    For a part of something to emerge or protrude outside from a hole ;
'jur	 verb-pres 	'jur	   To tame, subdue; to check, examine; to draw tightly ;
bzhur	 verb-past 	'jur	   To tame, subdue; to check, examine; to draw tightly ;
gzhur	 verb-fut 	'jur	   To tame, subdue; to check, examine; to draw tightly ;
'jeb	 verb-pres 	'jebs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be pleasing, to be agreeable ;
'jeb	 verb-past 	'jebs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be pleasing, to be agreeable ;
'jebs	 verb-fut 	'jebs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be pleasing, to be agreeable ;
'jem	 verb-pres 	'jem	   Probably a verbal use of the adjective 'jem pa
'jem	 verb-past 	'jem	   Probably a verbal use of the adjective 'jem pa
	 verb-fut 	'jem	   Probably a verbal use of the adjective 'jem pa
'jo	 verb-pres 	'jo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To milk ; To take milk from the breast of a milch animal ; 1. To yield, extract, to milk. 2. To satisfy, to fulfill. 3. To captivate, to bewitch ;
bzhos	 verb-past 	'jo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To milk ; To take milk from the breast of a milch animal ; 1. To yield, extract, to milk. 2. To satisfy, to fulfill. 3. To captivate, to bewitch ;
bzho	 verb-fut 	'jo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To milk ; To take milk from the breast of a milch animal ; 1. To yield, extract, to milk. 2. To satisfy, to fulfill. 3. To captivate, to bewitch ;
'jo	 verb-pres 	'jo	Intransitive:    1. To satisfy, fulfill. 2. To rain, or many desires to be fulfilled ;
'jos	 verb-past 	'jo	Intransitive:    1. To satisfy, fulfill. 2. To rain, or many desires to be fulfilled ;
'jo	 verb-fut 	'jo	Intransitive:    1. To satisfy, fulfill. 2. To rain, or many desires to be fulfilled ;
'jog	 verb-pres 	'jog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To put, place, make a place, settle, to assign. 2. To leave, leave behind ; 1. To keep in place. 2. To leave, give up ; 1. For a thing to remain in its own place. 2. To give an example. 3. To make a success 4. To add, augment (e.g. ; 1. To fix, to settle, to keep, to place, to put down, to arrange. 2. To establish, to found, to make, to sign. 3. To leave or to have. 4. To leave aside, to put aside, to neglect, to reject ;
bzhag	 verb-past 	'jog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To put, place, make a place, settle, to assign. 2. To leave, leave behind ; 1. To keep in place. 2. To leave, give up ; 1. For a thing to remain in its own place. 2. To give an example. 3. To make a success 4. To add, augment (e.g. ; 1. To fix, to settle, to keep, to place, to put down, to arrange. 2. To establish, to found, to make, to sign. 3. To leave or to have. 4. To leave aside, to put aside, to neglect, to reject ;
gzhag	 verb-fut 	'jog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To put, place, make a place, settle, to assign. 2. To leave, leave behind ; 1. To keep in place. 2. To leave, give up ; 1. For a thing to remain in its own place. 2. To give an example. 3. To make a success 4. To add, augment (e.g. ; 1. To fix, to settle, to keep, to place, to put down, to arrange. 2. To establish, to found, to make, to sign. 3. To leave or to have. 4. To leave aside, to put aside, to neglect, to reject ;
zhogs	 verb-pres 	'jog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cut, hew, to square (a pen, timber &c.); to carve, chip ; To carve, plane, chip, strain ;
zhogs	 verb-past 	'jog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cut, hew, to square (a pen, timber &c.); to carve, chip ; To carve, plane, chip, strain ;
bzhog	 verb-fut 	'jog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cut, hew, to square (a pen, timber &c.); to carve, chip ; To carve, plane, chip, strain ;
'jog	 verb-pres 	'jog	  
'jogs	 verb-past 	'jog	  
'jog	 verb-fut 	'jog	  
'jong	 verb-pres 	'jong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To gulp down ;
'jangs	 verb-past 	'jong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To gulp down ;
'jang	 verb-fut 	'jong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To gulp down ;
'joms	 verb-pres 	'joms	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To conquer, subdue, put down, suppress. 2. To oppress, tyrannize over, plunder ; To destroy, to put an end to, to conquer, defeat, quell ; 1. To destroy, to defeat. 2. To annihilate, remove, cure ; To subdue, to quell, to plunder, to defeat, to suppress, to damage ;
bcom	 verb-past 	'joms	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To conquer, subdue, put down, suppress. 2. To oppress, tyrannize over, plunder ; To destroy, to put an end to, to conquer, defeat, quell ; 1. To destroy, to defeat. 2. To annihilate, remove, cure ; To subdue, to quell, to plunder, to defeat, to suppress, to damage ;
gzhom	 verb-fut 	'joms	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To conquer, subdue, put down, suppress. 2. To oppress, tyrannize over, plunder ; To destroy, to put an end to, to conquer, defeat, quell ; 1. To destroy, to defeat. 2. To annihilate, remove, cure ; To subdue, to quell, to plunder, to defeat, to suppress, to damage ;
'jol	 verb-pres 	'jol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To hang down. 2. (for ; To hang down, to dangle ; To sag, to hand down, to drag down, to trail down, to dangle ;
'jol	 verb-past 	'jol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To hang down. 2. (for ; To hang down, to dangle ; To sag, to hand down, to drag down, to trail down, to dangle ;
'jol	 verb-fut 	'jol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To hang down. 2. (for ; To hang down, to dangle ; To sag, to hand down, to drag down, to trail down, to dangle ;
rjid	 verb-pres 	rjid	   To become weak and thin, to decay, diminish ; Compare rjud
rjid	 verb-past 	rjid	   To become weak and thin, to decay, diminish ; Compare rjud
rjid	 verb-fut 	rjid	   To become weak and thin, to decay, diminish ; Compare rjud
rjud	 verb-pres 	rjud	   To become weak and thin, to decay, diminish ; Compare rjid
rjud	 verb-past 	rjud	   To become weak and thin, to decay, diminish ; Compare rjid
rjud	 verb-fut 	rjud	   To become weak and thin, to decay, diminish ; Compare rjid
rje	 verb-pres 	rje	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To change, barter, to give or take in exchange ; To exchange, change ; To exchange ; To exchange, to change ;
brjes	 verb-past 	rje	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To change, barter, to give or take in exchange ; To exchange, change ; To exchange ; To exchange, to change ;
brje	 verb-fut 	rje	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To change, barter, to give or take in exchange ; To exchange, change ; To exchange ; To exchange, to change ;
rjed	 verb-pres 	rjed	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To honor, reverence ; To offer, to respect ; (archaic) To pay compliments, respect ; To respect, to venerate, to revere, to honor ;
brjed	 verb-past 	rjed	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To honor, reverence ; To offer, to respect ; (archaic) To pay compliments, respect ; To respect, to venerate, to revere, to honor ;
brjed	 verb-fut 	rjed	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To honor, reverence ; To offer, to respect ; (archaic) To pay compliments, respect ; To respect, to venerate, to revere, to honor ;
rjod	 verb-pres 	rjod	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To say, recite, pronounce, utter, announce, promulgate, enumerate, set forth ; To express; to say, speak ; To say, speak ; To say, to tell, to express, to pronounce, to utter, to recount ;
brjod	 verb-past 	rjod	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To say, recite, pronounce, utter, announce, promulgate, enumerate, set forth ; To express; to say, speak ; To say, speak ; To say, to tell, to express, to pronounce, to utter, to recount ;
brjod	 verb-fut 	rjod	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To say, recite, pronounce, utter, announce, promulgate, enumerate, set forth ; To express; to say, speak ; To say, speak ; To say, to tell, to express, to pronounce, to utter, to recount ;
rjod	 verb-pres 	rjod	   To be expressed (by), to be called ;
brjod	 verb-past 	rjod	   To be expressed (by), to be called ;
brjod	 verb-fut 	rjod	   To be expressed (by), to be called ;
ljen	 verb-pres 	ljen	   To enter, penetrate ;
	 verb-past 	ljen	   To enter, penetrate ;
	 verb-fut 	ljen	   To enter, penetrate ;
brjid	 verb-pres 	brjid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To shine, glitter ; To brighten, beautiful; to be glorious ; To be majestic, to be mighty, to be splendid ;
brjid	 verb-past 	brjid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To shine, glitter ; To brighten, beautiful; to be glorious ; To be majestic, to be mighty, to be splendid ;
brjid	 verb-fut 	brjid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To shine, glitter ; To brighten, beautiful; to be glorious ; To be majestic, to be mighty, to be splendid ;
brjed	 verb-pres 	brjed	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To forget ; To forget, to neglect ;
brjed	 verb-past 	brjed	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To forget ; To forget, to neglect ;
brjed	 verb-fut 	brjed	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To forget ; To forget, to neglect ;
nya	 verb-pres 	nya	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (of celestial bodies) To be full ;
nya	 verb-past 	nya	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (of celestial bodies) To be full ;
nya	 verb-fut 	nya	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (of celestial bodies) To be full ;
nyan	 verb-pres 	nyan	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To hear, to give ear to, to listen ; To listen, obey ; To listen to, to cause to listen ; To hear ; To be attentive to, to listen to ;
mnyan(d)	 verb-past 	nyan	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To hear, to give ear to, to listen ; To listen, obey ; To listen to, to cause to listen ; To hear ; To be attentive to, to listen to ;
mnyan	 verb-fut 	nyan	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To hear, to give ear to, to listen ; To listen, obey ; To listen to, to cause to listen ; To hear ; To be attentive to, to listen to ;
nyan	 verb-pres 	nyan	 Involuntary:   To be able ; To be suitable, fitting, possible ; To be fit for ;
	 verb-past 	nyan	 Involuntary:   To be able ; To be suitable, fitting, possible ; To be fit for ;
	 verb-fut 	nyan	 Involuntary:   To be able ; To be suitable, fitting, possible ; To be fit for ;
	 verb-pres 	nyan	  
	 verb-past 	nyan	  
	 verb-fut 	nyan	  
nyams	 verb-pres 	nyams	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To deteriorate, to grow weak, to decline ; To deteriorate, decline, perish, come to ruin ; To degenerate, to decline, to deteriorate ;
nyams	 verb-past 	nyams	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To deteriorate, to grow weak, to decline ; To deteriorate, decline, perish, come to ruin ; To degenerate, to decline, to deteriorate ;
nyams	 verb-fut 	nyams	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To deteriorate, to grow weak, to decline ; To deteriorate, decline, perish, come to ruin ; To degenerate, to decline, to deteriorate ;
nyar	 verb-pres 	nyar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To keep, preserve ; To keep, take care of, preserve, conserve ; To keep ;
nyar(d)	 verb-past 	nyar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To keep, preserve ; To keep, take care of, preserve, conserve ; To keep ;
nyar	 verb-fut 	nyar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To keep, preserve ; To keep, take care of, preserve, conserve ; To keep ;
nyal	 verb-pres 	nyal	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To lie down, to sleep ; 1. (of men and cattle) To rest, lying on the side of the body. 2. To sleep. 3. (of twigs and chaff) to fall upon the surface of the ground ; To lie down, to rest, to fall asleep, to go to sleep, to stop, to come to a halt ; Root given as nyal < *nal (Beyer 1992: 84) .
nyal(d)	 verb-past 	nyal	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To lie down, to sleep ; 1. (of men and cattle) To rest, lying on the side of the body. 2. To sleep. 3. (of twigs and chaff) to fall upon the surface of the ground ; To lie down, to rest, to fall asleep, to go to sleep, to stop, to come to a halt ; Root given as nyal < *nal (Beyer 1992: 84) .
nyal	 verb-fut 	nyal	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To lie down, to sleep ; 1. (of men and cattle) To rest, lying on the side of the body. 2. To sleep. 3. (of twigs and chaff) to fall upon the surface of the ground ; To lie down, to rest, to fall asleep, to go to sleep, to stop, to come to a halt ; Root given as nyal < *nal (Beyer 1992: 84) .
nyil	 verb-pres 	nyil	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be desiccated, to crumble away, to thaw ; To fall apart, to become old, to be ruined ; 1. To crumble, collapse. 2. To fall down as many droplets ; To become dull, less sharp ; To collapse, to crumble, to pour or flow down, to erode ;
nyil(d)	 verb-past 	nyil	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be desiccated, to crumble away, to thaw ; To fall apart, to become old, to be ruined ; 1. To crumble, collapse. 2. To fall down as many droplets ; To become dull, less sharp ; To collapse, to crumble, to pour or flow down, to erode ;
nyil	 verb-fut 	nyil	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be desiccated, to crumble away, to thaw ; To fall apart, to become old, to be ruined ; 1. To crumble, collapse. 2. To fall down as many droplets ; To become dull, less sharp ; To collapse, to crumble, to pour or flow down, to erode ;
nyug	 verb-pres 	nyug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To anoint, apply oil or ointment ; 1. To touch. 2. To apply, anoint ; 1. To touch, to grope for, to stretch out. 2. To apply, to smear, to put on ;
nyugs	 verb-past 	nyug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To anoint, apply oil or ointment ; 1. To touch. 2. To apply, anoint ; 1. To touch, to grope for, to stretch out. 2. To apply, to smear, to put on ;
nyug	 verb-fut 	nyug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To anoint, apply oil or ointment ; 1. To touch. 2. To apply, anoint ; 1. To touch, to grope for, to stretch out. 2. To apply, to smear, to put on ;
nyung	 verb-pres 	nyung	 Involuntary:   To be few ;
nyung	 verb-past 	nyung	 Involuntary:   To be few ;
	 verb-fut 	nyung	 Involuntary:   To be few ;
nyul	 verb-pres 	nyul	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To wander, rove about; to step gently, steal through, creep ; To wander ; To go without having a goal ; 1. To roam, to wander, to search for. 2. (archaic) To delay, to linger, to loiter ; Compare gnyul
nyul(d)	 verb-past 	nyul	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To wander, rove about; to step gently, steal through, creep ; To wander ; To go without having a goal ; 1. To roam, to wander, to search for. 2. (archaic) To delay, to linger, to loiter ; Compare gnyul
nyul	 verb-fut 	nyul	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To wander, rove about; to step gently, steal through, creep ; To wander ; To go without having a goal ; 1. To roam, to wander, to search for. 2. (archaic) To delay, to linger, to loiter ; Compare gnyul
nye	 verb-pres 	nye	   To be near, to approach ; To go nearer, to be near; to become close friends ;
nye	 verb-past 	nye	   To be near, to approach ; To go nearer, to be near; to become close friends ;
nye	 verb-fut 	nye	   To be near, to approach ; To go nearer, to be near; to become close friends ;
nyen	 verb-pres 	nyen	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be pained, pinched, pressed hard (e.g. by hunger); to labor, to drudge ; To be in danger ; To suffer ;
nyen(d)	 verb-past 	nyen	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be pained, pinched, pressed hard (e.g. by hunger); to labor, to drudge ; To be in danger ; To suffer ;
nyen	 verb-fut 	nyen	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be pained, pinched, pressed hard (e.g. by hunger); to labor, to drudge ; To be in danger ; To suffer ;
nyes	 verb-pres 	nyes	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To commit an offence (commoner usage is with -; To be spoilt, to become useless ; To harm, damage &c. ; To be defective, to be flawed, to be wrong, to go wrong ;
nyes	 verb-past 	nyes	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To commit an offence (commoner usage is with -; To be spoilt, to become useless ; To harm, damage &c. ; To be defective, to be flawed, to be wrong, to go wrong ;
nyes	 verb-fut 	nyes	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To commit an offence (commoner usage is with -; To be spoilt, to become useless ; To harm, damage &c. ; To be defective, to be flawed, to be wrong, to go wrong ;
nyo	 verb-pres 	nyo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To buy, obtain by payment ; To purchase, buy ; To exchange money for something ; To buy, to purchase ;
nyos	 verb-past 	nyo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To buy, obtain by payment ; To purchase, buy ; To exchange money for something ; To buy, to purchase ;
nyo	 verb-fut 	nyo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To buy, obtain by payment ; To purchase, buy ; To exchange money for something ; To buy, to purchase ;
nyog	 verb-pres 	nyog	Intransitive:    1. To become muddy, to be unclean or obscure. 2. To feel dull ; To be disorderly, disarrayed ;
nyogs	 verb-past 	nyog	Intransitive:    1. To become muddy, to be unclean or obscure. 2. To feel dull ; To be disorderly, disarrayed ;
nyog	 verb-fut 	nyog	Intransitive:    1. To become muddy, to be unclean or obscure. 2. To feel dull ; To be disorderly, disarrayed ;
nyob	 verb-pres 	nyob	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To become lazy, inactive. To be idle or disinterred ; To be unable (in mental capacity, or mental and physical activity) ; To be tired, to be run down, to be weary, to be exhausted ;
nyob	 verb-past 	nyob	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To become lazy, inactive. To be idle or disinterred ; To be unable (in mental capacity, or mental and physical activity) ; To be tired, to be run down, to be weary, to be exhausted ;
nyob	 verb-fut 	nyob	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To become lazy, inactive. To be idle or disinterred ; To be unable (in mental capacity, or mental and physical activity) ; To be tired, to be run down, to be weary, to be exhausted ;
nyor	 verb-pres 	nyor	 Involuntary:  To fall down slowly, to collapse ; To become overripe, squishy ;
nyor(d)	 verb-past 	nyor	 Involuntary:  To fall down slowly, to collapse ; To become overripe, squishy ;
nyor	 verb-fut 	nyor	 Involuntary:  To fall down slowly, to collapse ; To become overripe, squishy ;
gnyid	 verb-pres 	gnyid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fall asleep ; To sleep, to fall asleep ;
gnyid	 verb-past 	gnyid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fall asleep ; To sleep, to fall asleep ;
gnyid	 verb-fut 	gnyid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fall asleep ; To sleep, to fall asleep ;
gnyul(d)	 verb-pres 	gnyul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To search, find, to spy, to wander ; To look around, search about, to wander ; To transverse, to wander, to roam, to travel ; Compare nyul
gnyul(d)	 verb-past 	gnyul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To search, find, to spy, to wander ; To look around, search about, to wander ; To transverse, to wander, to roam, to travel ; Compare nyul
gnyul	 verb-fut 	gnyul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To search, find, to spy, to wander ; To look around, search about, to wander ; To transverse, to wander, to roam, to travel ; Compare nyul
gnye	 verb-pres 	gnye	   To woo, court ;
gnye	 verb-past 	gnye	   To woo, court ;
	 verb-fut 	gnye	   To woo, court ;
gnyeg	 verb-pres 	gnyeg	   To press down ;
gnyags	 verb-past 	gnyeg	   To press down ;
gnyag	 verb-fut 	gnyeg	   To press down ;
gnyer	 verb-pres 	gnyer	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To tend, to take care of, to provide for; to seek for, to procure, to acquire ; To keep, preserve; to get into, to seek ; 1. To keep after (good qualities &c.). 2. To become presnkly ; 1. To strive for, to work for, to provide for, to procure. 2. To look after, to manage, to supervise, to take care of. 3. To gnash the teeth, to frown. 4. (archaic) To summon ;
gnyer(d)	 verb-past 	gnyer	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To tend, to take care of, to provide for; to seek for, to procure, to acquire ; To keep, preserve; to get into, to seek ; 1. To keep after (good qualities &c.). 2. To become presnkly ; 1. To strive for, to work for, to provide for, to procure. 2. To look after, to manage, to supervise, to take care of. 3. To gnash the teeth, to frown. 4. (archaic) To summon ;
gnyer	 verb-fut 	gnyer	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To tend, to take care of, to provide for; to seek for, to procure, to acquire ; To keep, preserve; to get into, to seek ; 1. To keep after (good qualities &c.). 2. To become presnkly ; 1. To strive for, to work for, to provide for, to procure. 2. To look after, to manage, to supervise, to take care of. 3. To gnash the teeth, to frown. 4. (archaic) To summon ;
gnyog	 verb-pres 	gnyog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To desire, wish earnestly (Cs.) ; To chew ; To chew, to masticate, to munch. 2. To whip, to strike, to beat, to pound ;
bnyags	 verb-past 	gnyog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To desire, wish earnestly (Cs.) ; To chew ; To chew, to masticate, to munch. 2. To whip, to strike, to beat, to pound ;
gnyag	 verb-fut 	gnyog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To desire, wish earnestly (Cs.) ; To chew ; To chew, to masticate, to munch. 2. To whip, to strike, to beat, to pound ;
gnyog	 verb-pres 	gnyog	Transitive:    To hit, strike, beat ;
gnyog	 verb-past 	gnyog	Transitive:    To hit, strike, beat ;
gnyog	 verb-fut 	gnyog	Transitive:    To hit, strike, beat ;
mnyam	 verb-pres 	mnyam	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be alike, to be equal ; To be similar, to compare ; Compare bnyam
mnyam	 verb-past 	mnyam	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be alike, to be equal ; To be similar, to compare ; Compare bnyam
mnyam	 verb-fut 	mnyam	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be alike, to be equal ; To be similar, to compare ; Compare bnyam
mnyed	 verb-pres 	mnyed	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To rub between the hands or feet (e.g. ears of corn). 2. To tan, curry, dress. 3. To coax (Cs.) ; To rub; to tan; to tame; to crush, grind; to knead ; To make a hard thing (e.g. leather, hide) supple by rubbing ; To tan, to rub ; To massage, to rub gently ;
mnyes	 verb-past 	mnyed	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To rub between the hands or feet (e.g. ears of corn). 2. To tan, curry, dress. 3. To coax (Cs.) ; To rub; to tan; to tame; to crush, grind; to knead ; To make a hard thing (e.g. leather, hide) supple by rubbing ; To tan, to rub ; To massage, to rub gently ;
mnye	 verb-fut 	mnyed	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To rub between the hands or feet (e.g. ears of corn). 2. To tan, curry, dress. 3. To coax (Cs.) ; To rub; to tan; to tame; to crush, grind; to knead ; To make a hard thing (e.g. leather, hide) supple by rubbing ; To tan, to rub ; To massage, to rub gently ;
mnyen	 verb-pres 	mnyen	   Likely a deverbal use of the adjective mnyen
mnyen(d)	 verb-past 	mnyen	   Likely a deverbal use of the adjective mnyen
mnyen	 verb-fut 	mnyen	   Likely a deverbal use of the adjective mnyen
mnyel	 verb-pres 	mnyel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be tired, fatigued; to get tired ; To be tired ; (honorific) To be tired ; To be tired, to be exhausted ;
mnyel(d)	 verb-past 	mnyel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be tired, fatigued; to get tired ; To be tired ; (honorific) To be tired ; To be tired, to be exhausted ;
mnyel	 verb-fut 	mnyel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be tired, fatigued; to get tired ; To be tired ; (honorific) To be tired ; To be tired, to be exhausted ;
mnyes	 verb-pres 	mnyes	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) To be glad, to take delight in ; To be fond of, to be happy, pleased ; (honorific) To rejoice, to be glad, to delight, to be pleased ;
mnyes	 verb-past 	mnyes	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) To be glad, to take delight in ; To be fond of, to be happy, pleased ; (honorific) To rejoice, to be glad, to delight, to be pleased ;
mnyes	 verb-fut 	mnyes	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) To be glad, to take delight in ; To be fond of, to be happy, pleased ; (honorific) To rejoice, to be glad, to delight, to be pleased ;
rnya	 verb-pres 	rnya	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To borrow (Ñag 30). 2. To take on lease (Ñag 30). 3. To seize (by force), to usurp (Sch.) ; To lend, borrow ; (archaic) To lend, borrow ; To borrow, lend ; Root given as rnya < *r-ŋya < *ŋya (Beyer 1992: 83).
brnyas	 verb-past 	rnya	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To borrow (Ñag 30). 2. To take on lease (Ñag 30). 3. To seize (by force), to usurp (Sch.) ; To lend, borrow ; (archaic) To lend, borrow ; To borrow, lend ; Root given as rnya < *r-ŋya < *ŋya (Beyer 1992: 83).
brnya	 verb-fut 	rnya	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To borrow (Ñag 30). 2. To take on lease (Ñag 30). 3. To seize (by force), to usurp (Sch.) ; To lend, borrow ; (archaic) To lend, borrow ; To borrow, lend ; Root given as rnya < *r-ŋya < *ŋya (Beyer 1992: 83).
rnyang	 verb-pres 	rnyang	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To rinse. 2. (in West) To suffer from diarrhea ; To have diarrhea ;
brnyangs	 verb-past 	rnyang	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To rinse. 2. (in West) To suffer from diarrhea ; To have diarrhea ;
brnyang	 verb-fut 	rnyang	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To rinse. 2. (in West) To suffer from diarrhea ; To have diarrhea ;
rnyan	 verb-pres 	rnyan	Transitive: Voluntary:   To borrow ; To lend, borrow ; Compare rnya
brnyan(d)	 verb-past 	rnyan	Transitive: Voluntary:   To borrow ; To lend, borrow ; Compare rnya
brnyan	 verb-fut 	rnyan	Transitive: Voluntary:   To borrow ; To lend, borrow ; Compare rnya
rnying	 verb-pres 	rnying	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To age, wax old ; To cause to become old, to cause to wear out ; To wear out, show the passage of time ;
brnyings	 verb-past 	rnying	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To age, wax old ; To cause to become old, to cause to wear out ; To wear out, show the passage of time ;
brnying	 verb-fut 	rnying	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To age, wax old ; To cause to become old, to cause to wear out ; To wear out, show the passage of time ;
rnyid	 verb-pres 	rnyid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To whither, fade. 2. To grieve ; To whither ; 1. To wither, to shrivel. 2. To be discouraged, to be dispirited, to be fed up ;
brnyid	 verb-past 	rnyid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To whither, fade. 2. To grieve ; To whither ; 1. To wither, to shrivel. 2. To be discouraged, to be dispirited, to be fed up ;
gnyid	 verb-fut 	rnyid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To whither, fade. 2. To grieve ; To whither ; 1. To wither, to shrivel. 2. To be discouraged, to be dispirited, to be fed up ;
rnyil	 verb-pres 	rnyil	 Voluntary:   Certainly derived from the noun rnyil
brnyil(d)	 verb-past 	rnyil	 Voluntary:   Certainly derived from the noun rnyil
brnyil	 verb-fut 	rnyil	 Voluntary:   Certainly derived from the noun rnyil
rnyis	 verb-pres 	rnyis	   To be warn out, become old, faded ; The entry is unclear about what "pf." refers to.
rnyis	 verb-past 	rnyis	   To be warn out, become old, faded ; The entry is unclear about what "pf." refers to.
	 verb-fut 	rnyis	   To be warn out, become old, faded ; The entry is unclear about what "pf." refers to.
rnyed	 verb-pres 	rnyed	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To find, discover, acquire, meet with, get ; 1. Having searched, to acquire at hand. 2. To newly know an unknown meaning ; To procure, to get, to find ; To find, to discover, to obtain, to get ;
brnyed	 verb-past 	rnyed	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To find, discover, acquire, meet with, get ; 1. Having searched, to acquire at hand. 2. To newly know an unknown meaning ; To procure, to get, to find ; To find, to discover, to obtain, to get ;
brnyed	 verb-fut 	rnyed	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To find, discover, acquire, meet with, get ; 1. Having searched, to acquire at hand. 2. To newly know an unknown meaning ; To procure, to get, to find ; To find, to discover, to obtain, to get ;
rnyog	 verb-pres 	rnyog	 Involuntary:   To trouble, to stir up (Cs.) ; To make dirty, to cause to get into bad habits ; To make impure, unclear through the agitation of liquid ; Compare snyog
brnyogs	 verb-past 	rnyog	 Involuntary:   To trouble, to stir up (Cs.) ; To make dirty, to cause to get into bad habits ; To make impure, unclear through the agitation of liquid ; Compare snyog
brnyog	 verb-fut 	rnyog	 Involuntary:   To trouble, to stir up (Cs.) ; To make dirty, to cause to get into bad habits ; To make impure, unclear through the agitation of liquid ; Compare snyog
rnyong	 verb-pres 	rnyong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To ensnare, to trap (Cs.). 2. To stretch out ; To stretch one's legs, &c. ; 1. To understand, examine closely. 2. To stretch out (hand and feet) ;
brnyongs	 verb-past 	rnyong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To ensnare, to trap (Cs.). 2. To stretch out ; To stretch one's legs, &c. ; 1. To understand, examine closely. 2. To stretch out (hand and feet) ;
brnyong	 verb-fut 	rnyong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To ensnare, to trap (Cs.). 2. To stretch out ; To stretch one's legs, &c. ; 1. To understand, examine closely. 2. To stretch out (hand and feet) ;
rnyong	 verb-pres 	rnyong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To discharge, loose motion, to loosen bowels ; To stretch out, to set, to lay, to share ;
brnyangs	 verb-past 	rnyong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To discharge, loose motion, to loosen bowels ; To stretch out, to set, to lay, to share ;
brnyang	 verb-fut 	rnyong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To discharge, loose motion, to loosen bowels ; To stretch out, to set, to lay, to share ;
rnyob	 verb-pres 	rnyob	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To reach out, to cause to touch ;  To grasp with the hand ; 1. To reach. 2. To take ;
brnyabs	 verb-past 	rnyob	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To reach out, to cause to touch ;  To grasp with the hand ; 1. To reach. 2. To take ;
brnyab	 verb-fut 	rnyob	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To reach out, to cause to touch ;  To grasp with the hand ; 1. To reach. 2. To take ;
snya	 verb-pres 	snya	Intransitive:    (for body or mind) To become dull, fatigued (an orthographic variant of ; (archaic) To fall asleep, to faint ;
	 verb-past 	snya	Intransitive:    (for body or mind) To become dull, fatigued (an orthographic variant of ; (archaic) To fall asleep, to faint ;
	 verb-fut 	snya	Intransitive:    (for body or mind) To become dull, fatigued (an orthographic variant of ; (archaic) To fall asleep, to faint ;
snyag	 verb-pres 	snyag	   (colloquial for ; To follow ;
bsnyags	 verb-past 	snyag	   (colloquial for ; To follow ;
bsnyag	 verb-fut 	snyag	   (colloquial for ; To follow ;
bsnyad	 verb-pres 	snyad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To relate, to report, to tell, relate ; (archaic) To explain, tell about ; To tell narrate, describe relate ;
bsnyad	 verb-past 	snyad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To relate, to report, to tell, relate ; (archaic) To explain, tell about ; To tell narrate, describe relate ;
bsnyad	 verb-fut 	snyad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To relate, to report, to tell, relate ; (archaic) To explain, tell about ; To tell narrate, describe relate ;
snyab	 verb-pres 	snyab	   To smack with the lips (Sch.) ;
	 verb-past 	snyab	   To smack with the lips (Sch.) ;
	 verb-fut 	snyab	   To smack with the lips (Sch.) ;
snyam	 verb-pres 	snyam	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To think, consider, imagine ; To think, to suppose ; 1. (when affixed to some verbs) To want to. 2. To have finished experiencing ; To think, to wish, to want, to feel, to imagine, to wonder ;
snyam	 verb-past 	snyam	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To think, consider, imagine ; To think, to suppose ; 1. (when affixed to some verbs) To want to. 2. To have finished experiencing ; To think, to wish, to want, to feel, to imagine, to wonder ;
snyam	 verb-fut 	snyam	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To think, consider, imagine ; To think, to suppose ; 1. (when affixed to some verbs) To want to. 2. To have finished experiencing ; To think, to wish, to want, to feel, to imagine, to wonder ;
snyal(d)	 verb-pres 	snyal	   To wash ;
bsnyal(d)	 verb-past 	snyal	   To wash ;
bsnyal	 verb-fut 	snyal	   To wash ;
snyig	 verb-pres 	snyig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To pollute, to cause to be impure ; To segregate to one side what is unclean within something ; To discard, to set aside, to reject (as a sediment, scum or dregs) ;
bsnyigs	 verb-past 	snyig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To pollute, to cause to be impure ; To segregate to one side what is unclean within something ; To discard, to set aside, to reject (as a sediment, scum or dregs) ;
bsnyig	 verb-fut 	snyig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To pollute, to cause to be impure ; To segregate to one side what is unclean within something ; To discard, to set aside, to reject (as a sediment, scum or dregs) ;
snyigs	 verb-pres 	snyigs	Intransitive:    1. To sink into deep water. 2. To become bad, evil (e.g. the times). 3. To be left behind (e.g. a sheep) ;
snyigs	 verb-past 	snyigs	Intransitive:    1. To sink into deep water. 2. To become bad, evil (e.g. the times). 3. To be left behind (e.g. a sheep) ;
snyigs	 verb-fut 	snyigs	Intransitive:    1. To sink into deep water. 2. To become bad, evil (e.g. the times). 3. To be left behind (e.g. a sheep) ;
snyil	 verb-pres 	snyil	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To push, throw down, to break, destroy; to squander ; To expel, to remove, take out by force, to tear, slash ; 1. To overcome, destroy, bring down. 2. To drift down, to tumble down (e.g. snow). 3. To fall, cascade (e.g. rain, dirt) ; 1. To destroy, to fragment, to crush. 2. To expel, to drive out ;
bsnyil(d)	 verb-past 	snyil	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To push, throw down, to break, destroy; to squander ; To expel, to remove, take out by force, to tear, slash ; 1. To overcome, destroy, bring down. 2. To drift down, to tumble down (e.g. snow). 3. To fall, cascade (e.g. rain, dirt) ; 1. To destroy, to fragment, to crush. 2. To expel, to drive out ;
bsnyil	 verb-fut 	snyil	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To push, throw down, to break, destroy; to squander ; To expel, to remove, take out by force, to tear, slash ; 1. To overcome, destroy, bring down. 2. To drift down, to tumble down (e.g. snow). 3. To fall, cascade (e.g. rain, dirt) ; 1. To destroy, to fragment, to crush. 2. To expel, to drive out ;
snyug	 verb-pres 	snyug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To dip in, to immerse ; To vomit, to anoint ; (archaic) To apply oil, anoint ; 1. To smear to apply. 2. To vomit. 3. To immerse, submerge, drop to the bottom ; Compare smyug
bsnyugs	 verb-past 	snyug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To dip in, to immerse ; To vomit, to anoint ; (archaic) To apply oil, anoint ; 1. To smear to apply. 2. To vomit. 3. To immerse, submerge, drop to the bottom ; Compare smyug
bsnyug	 verb-fut 	snyug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To dip in, to immerse ; To vomit, to anoint ; (archaic) To apply oil, anoint ; 1. To smear to apply. 2. To vomit. 3. To immerse, submerge, drop to the bottom ; Compare smyug
snyung	 verb-pres 	snyung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make less, reduce, to diminish, (acc. Sch.) to disparage ; To cause to decrease, to reduce in number ; (archaic) To reduce, make fewer ; To reduce, to diminish ;
bsnyung	 verb-past 	snyung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make less, reduce, to diminish, (acc. Sch.) to disparage ; To cause to decrease, to reduce in number ; (archaic) To reduce, make fewer ; To reduce, to diminish ;
bsnyung	 verb-fut 	snyung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make less, reduce, to diminish, (acc. Sch.) to disparage ; To cause to decrease, to reduce in number ; (archaic) To reduce, make fewer ; To reduce, to diminish ;
bsnyung	 verb-pres 	snyung	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be ill, sick, indisposed ; To be ill, sick ; (honorific) To be ill ; Surely related to snyun
bsnyungs	 verb-past 	snyung	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be ill, sick, indisposed ; To be ill, sick ; (honorific) To be ill ; Surely related to snyun
bsnyung	 verb-fut 	snyung	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be ill, sick, indisposed ; To be ill, sick ; (honorific) To be ill ; Surely related to snyun
snyun	 verb-pres 	snyun	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To be ill, to labor under a disease ; To cause to become ill; to be ill ; To be ill ; (honorific) To be ill, to be sick, to be unwell ; Surely related to snyung
bsnyun(d)	 verb-past 	snyun	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To be ill, to labor under a disease ; To cause to become ill; to be ill ; To be ill ; (honorific) To be ill, to be sick, to be unwell ; Surely related to snyung
bsnyun	 verb-fut 	snyun	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To be ill, to labor under a disease ; To cause to become ill; to be ill ; To be ill ; (honorific) To be ill, to be sick, to be unwell ; Surely related to snyung
snyul	 verb-pres 	snyul	 Voluntary:   1. To be rubbed (Ñag 30). 2. To wash ; 1. To cause to wander, to make to roam about. 2. To wash ;
bsnyul(d)	 verb-past 	snyul	 Voluntary:   1. To be rubbed (Ñag 30). 2. To wash ; 1. To cause to wander, to make to roam about. 2. To wash ;
bsnyul	 verb-fut 	snyul	 Voluntary:   1. To be rubbed (Ñag 30). 2. To wash ; 1. To cause to wander, to make to roam about. 2. To wash ;
snye	 verb-pres 	snye	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To lean on, lean against ; To lean on, be supported by ; To lean against, to rest against ;
bsnyes	 verb-past 	snye	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To lean on, lean against ; To lean on, be supported by ; To lean against, to rest against ;
bsnye	 verb-fut 	snye	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To lean on, lean against ; To lean on, be supported by ; To lean against, to rest against ;
snyeg	 verb-pres 	snyeg	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. (with accusative) To hasten after, run after, pursue. 2. To overtake. 3. (with dative) To hasten (to some place). 4. To strive, struggle for, to aspire to ; To follow ; 1. To go somewhere with a specific goal. 2. To follow after. 3. To arrive at ; 1. To pursue. 2. To reach, to scale. 3. To follow ;
bsnyegs	 verb-past 	snyeg	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. (with accusative) To hasten after, run after, pursue. 2. To overtake. 3. (with dative) To hasten (to some place). 4. To strive, struggle for, to aspire to ; To follow ; 1. To go somewhere with a specific goal. 2. To follow after. 3. To arrive at ; 1. To pursue. 2. To reach, to scale. 3. To follow ;
bsnyeg	 verb-fut 	snyeg	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. (with accusative) To hasten after, run after, pursue. 2. To overtake. 3. (with dative) To hasten (to some place). 4. To strive, struggle for, to aspire to ; To follow ; 1. To go somewhere with a specific goal. 2. To follow after. 3. To arrive at ; 1. To pursue. 2. To reach, to scale. 3. To follow ;
snyeng	 verb-pres 	snyeng	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fear, to be afraid of ; To frighten, fear, cause to be afraid of ; (archaic) To produce fear ; To be afraid ;
bsnyengs	 verb-past 	snyeng	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fear, to be afraid of ; To frighten, fear, cause to be afraid of ; (archaic) To produce fear ; To be afraid ;
bsnyeng	 verb-fut 	snyeng	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fear, to be afraid of ; To frighten, fear, cause to be afraid of ; (archaic) To produce fear ; To be afraid ;
snyeng	 verb-pres 	snyeng	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To stretch ; (archaic) To stretch ;
bsnyengs	 verb-past 	snyeng	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To stretch ; (archaic) To stretch ;
bsnyeng	 verb-fut 	snyeng	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To stretch ; (archaic) To stretch ;
bsnyen	 verb-pres 	snyen	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. (with dative) To come, go near, approach. 2. To gain, procure. 3. To propitiate, soothe, satisfy (e.g. a deity). 4. To accept, receive, admit ; To cause to be close, near, to bring nearer ; To bow in a place near to ; To attend upon, to serve, to practice ;
bsnyen(d)	 verb-past 	snyen	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. (with dative) To come, go near, approach. 2. To gain, procure. 3. To propitiate, soothe, satisfy (e.g. a deity). 4. To accept, receive, admit ; To cause to be close, near, to bring nearer ; To bow in a place near to ; To attend upon, to serve, to practice ;
bsnyen	 verb-fut 	snyen	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. (with dative) To come, go near, approach. 2. To gain, procure. 3. To propitiate, soothe, satisfy (e.g. a deity). 4. To accept, receive, admit ; To cause to be close, near, to bring nearer ; To bow in a place near to ; To attend upon, to serve, to practice ;
snyems	 verb-pres 	snyems	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To be proud, arrogant, to boast ; To cause to be haughty, self satisfied, to cause to be come proud ; To demonstrate the characteristic of haughtiness, pride ; To be proud, to be arrogant ;
bsnyems	 verb-past 	snyems	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To be proud, arrogant, to boast ; To cause to be haughty, self satisfied, to cause to be come proud ; To demonstrate the characteristic of haughtiness, pride ; To be proud, to be arrogant ;
bsnyem	 verb-fut 	snyems	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To be proud, arrogant, to boast ; To cause to be haughty, self satisfied, to cause to be come proud ; To demonstrate the characteristic of haughtiness, pride ; To be proud, to be arrogant ;
snyer	 verb-pres 	snyer	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make grimaces, gesticulation ; To cause to presnkle, frown ; To presnkle ; To frown, grimace, snarl ;
bsnyer(d)	 verb-past 	snyer	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make grimaces, gesticulation ; To cause to presnkle, frown ; To presnkle ; To frown, grimace, snarl ;
bsnyer	 verb-fut 	snyer	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make grimaces, gesticulation ; To cause to presnkle, frown ; To presnkle ; To frown, grimace, snarl ;
bsnyel	 verb-pres 	snyel	Transitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) To forget ;To forget;
bsnyel(d)	 verb-past 	snyel	Transitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) To forget ;To forget;
bsnyel	 verb-fut 	snyel	Transitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) To forget ;To forget;
snyog	 verb-pres 	snyog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To collect payment ; To pursue, to pester ;
bsnyags	 verb-past 	snyog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To collect payment ; To pursue, to pester ;
bsnyag	 verb-fut 	snyog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To collect payment ; To pursue, to pester ;
snyog	 verb-pres 	snyog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make impure, unclear through the agitation of liquid ; To agitate, to stir, to churn, to disturb ; Compare rnyog
bsnyogs	 verb-past 	snyog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make impure, unclear through the agitation of liquid ; To agitate, to stir, to churn, to disturb ; Compare rnyog
bsnyog	 verb-fut 	snyog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make impure, unclear through the agitation of liquid ; To agitate, to stir, to churn, to disturb ; Compare rnyog
snyogs	 verb-pres 	snyogs	   To wish earnestly, to crave for, to implore ; Compare brnyog
	 verb-past 	snyogs	   To wish earnestly, to crave for, to implore ; Compare brnyog
bsnyog	 verb-fut 	snyogs	   To wish earnestly, to crave for, to implore ; Compare brnyog
snyod	 verb-pres 	snyod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To feed, to give to eat and drink ; To give food from mouth to mouth (as a mother feeds her baby); to give or feed ; To give food to, feed (e.g. a young child) ; To feed, to nourish, to spoon feed ;
bsnyod	 verb-past 	snyod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To feed, to give to eat and drink ; To give food from mouth to mouth (as a mother feeds her baby); to give or feed ; To give food to, feed (e.g. a young child) ; To feed, to nourish, to spoon feed ;
bsnyod	 verb-fut 	snyod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To feed, to give to eat and drink ; To give food from mouth to mouth (as a mother feeds her baby); to give or feed ; To give food to, feed (e.g. a young child) ; To feed, to nourish, to spoon feed ;
snyod	 verb-pres 	snyod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To draw out and twist as in spinning (Jä) ; To spin evenly, to twist ;
bsnyod	 verb-past 	snyod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To draw out and twist as in spinning (Jä) ; To spin evenly, to twist ;
bsnyod	 verb-fut 	snyod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To draw out and twist as in spinning (Jä) ; To spin evenly, to twist ;
snyon	 verb-pres 	snyon	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To deny, disavow (dishonestly) ; To make a false charge, accuse without basis ; To make (someone) obey a command, using force ; To make a false statement, to dissimulate, to contradict deceitfully ;
bsnyon(d)	 verb-past 	snyon	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To deny, disavow (dishonestly) ; To make a false charge, accuse without basis ; To make (someone) obey a command, using force ; To make a false statement, to dissimulate, to contradict deceitfully ;
bsnyon	 verb-fut 	snyon	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To deny, disavow (dishonestly) ; To make a false charge, accuse without basis ; To make (someone) obey a command, using force ; To make a false statement, to dissimulate, to contradict deceitfully ;
snyob	 verb-pres 	snyob	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To stretch forth. 2. To reach by stretching oneself out. 3. To arrive at ; To reach out, to cause to touch ; To take something with outstretched hand ; To reach out for, to stretch out for ;
bsnyabs	 verb-past 	snyob	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To stretch forth. 2. To reach by stretching oneself out. 3. To arrive at ; To reach out, to cause to touch ; To take something with outstretched hand ; To reach out for, to stretch out for ;
bsnyab	 verb-fut 	snyob	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To stretch forth. 2. To reach by stretching oneself out. 3. To arrive at ; To reach out, to cause to touch ; To take something with outstretched hand ; To reach out for, to stretch out for ;
snyoms	 verb-pres 	snyom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To make even, to level. 2. To equalize (different things), to arrange uniformly ; To equalize ; 1. To make what is uneven even, to plane. 2. To make of equal measure, equalize ; To equalize, to regulate, to make even, to make level, to balance ;
bsnyams	 verb-past 	snyom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To make even, to level. 2. To equalize (different things), to arrange uniformly ; To equalize ; 1. To make what is uneven even, to plane. 2. To make of equal measure, equalize ; To equalize, to regulate, to make even, to make level, to balance ;
bsnyam	 verb-fut 	snyom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To make even, to level. 2. To equalize (different things), to arrange uniformly ; To equalize ; 1. To make what is uneven even, to plane. 2. To make of equal measure, equalize ; To equalize, to regulate, to make even, to make level, to balance ;
snyor	 verb-pres 	snyor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To knock down, destroy, pull down, beat ; To take care of, protect, take charge of ; 1. To hit, to strike. 2. To crush, to squeeze, to compress. 3. To care for, to tend, to nurse ;
bsnyor(d)	 verb-past 	snyor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To knock down, destroy, pull down, beat ; To take care of, protect, take charge of ; 1. To hit, to strike. 2. To crush, to squeeze, to compress. 3. To care for, to tend, to nurse ;
bsnyor	 verb-fut 	snyor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To knock down, destroy, pull down, beat ; To take care of, protect, take charge of ; 1. To hit, to strike. 2. To crush, to squeeze, to compress. 3. To care for, to tend, to nurse ;
snyol	 verb-pres 	snyol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To lay anything down. 2. To bed a person, assign him to a couch, bed ; 1. To put to bed. 2. To lay out for fermentation (e.g. to make beer, curd) ; 1. To make sleep. 2. To process (meal, beer &c) by adding a fermenting agent, and setting it in a warm place. 3. To bring down, throw down ; 1. To ferment. 2. To lay down, to put to sleep. 3. To suppress, fell ;
bsnyal(d)	 verb-past 	snyol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To lay anything down. 2. To bed a person, assign him to a couch, bed ; 1. To put to bed. 2. To lay out for fermentation (e.g. to make beer, curd) ; 1. To make sleep. 2. To process (meal, beer &c) by adding a fermenting agent, and setting it in a warm place. 3. To bring down, throw down ; 1. To ferment. 2. To lay down, to put to sleep. 3. To suppress, fell ;
bsnyal	 verb-fut 	snyol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To lay anything down. 2. To bed a person, assign him to a couch, bed ; 1. To put to bed. 2. To lay out for fermentation (e.g. to make beer, curd) ; 1. To make sleep. 2. To process (meal, beer &c) by adding a fermenting agent, and setting it in a warm place. 3. To bring down, throw down ; 1. To ferment. 2. To lay down, to put to sleep. 3. To suppress, fell ;
brnyas	 verb-pres 	brnyas	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To insult, look down upon, disparage ; To ridicule, belittle ; To abuse, to harass, to mistreat ; To bully ;
brnyas	 verb-past 	brnyas	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To insult, look down upon, disparage ; To ridicule, belittle ; To abuse, to harass, to mistreat ; To bully ;
brnyas	 verb-fut 	brnyas	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To insult, look down upon, disparage ; To ridicule, belittle ; To abuse, to harass, to mistreat ; To bully ;
brnyes	 verb-pres 	brnyes	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To attain, acquire. 2. To start, found ; To be attained, to be founded, established ;
brnyes	 verb-past 	brnyes	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To attain, acquire. 2. To start, found ; To be attained, to be founded, established ;
brnyes	 verb-fut 	brnyes	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To attain, acquire. 2. To start, found ; To be attained, to be founded, established ;
brnyog	 verb-pres 	brnyog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be addicted to, to be partial to ; Perhaps to be connected with snyogs
brnyogs	 verb-past 	brnyog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be addicted to, to be partial to ; Perhaps to be connected with snyogs
brnyog	 verb-fut 	brnyog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be addicted to, to be partial to ; Perhaps to be connected with snyogs
bsnyigs	 verb-pres 	bsnyigs	   To return, restore, deliver up (Cs.) ;
	 verb-past 	bsnyigs	   To return, restore, deliver up (Cs.) ;
	 verb-fut 	bsnyigs	   To return, restore, deliver up (Cs.) ;
bsnyug	 verb-pres 	bsnyug	   To become full (Sch.) ;
bsnyugs	 verb-past 	bsnyug	   To become full (Sch.) ;
	 verb-fut 	bsnyug	   To become full (Sch.) ;
bsnyor	 verb-pres 	bsnyor	   To sort, sift, divide (Ñag 30) ;
	 verb-past 	bsnyor	   To sort, sift, divide (Ñag 30) ;
	 verb-fut 	bsnyor	   To sort, sift, divide (Ñag 30) ;
bsnyol	 verb-pres 	bsnyol	Intransitive:   (archaic) To fear ;
	 verb-past 	bsnyol	Intransitive:   (archaic) To fear ;
	 verb-fut 	bsnyol	Intransitive:   (archaic) To fear ;
tron	 verb-pres 	tron	   Having worked very hard at virtue, and being allied with the disciplinary officer in a temple to assist with his work ;
tron(d)	 verb-past 	tron	   Having worked very hard at virtue, and being allied with the disciplinary officer in a temple to assist with his work ;
tron	 verb-fut 	tron	   Having worked very hard at virtue, and being allied with the disciplinary officer in a temple to assist with his work ;
gtag	 verb-pres 	gtag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To hit, strike ;
gtags	 verb-past 	gtag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To hit, strike ;
gtags	 verb-fut 	gtag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To hit, strike ;
gtan	 verb-pres 	gtan	Transitive:    To tighten a door ;
gtan	 verb-past 	gtan	Transitive:    To tighten a door ;
gtan	 verb-fut 	gtan	Transitive:    To tighten a door ;
gtam	 verb-pres 	gtam	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To be surety for a security (K. du. da 200) ; To entrust, rely on ; To entrust to, give over for the care of ;
gtams	 verb-past 	gtam	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To be surety for a security (K. du. da 200) ; To entrust, rely on ; To entrust to, give over for the care of ;
gtam	 verb-fut 	gtam	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To be surety for a security (K. du. da 200) ; To entrust, rely on ; To entrust to, give over for the care of ;
gtam	 verb-pres 	gtam	Transitive:  Voluntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning:."]}; To tell ; To say, to tell ;
gtams	 verb-past 	gtam	Transitive:  Voluntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning:."]}; To tell ; To say, to tell ;
gtam	 verb-fut 	gtam	Transitive:  Voluntary:  {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning:."]}; To tell ; To say, to tell ;
gtams	 verb-pres 	gtams	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1 To fill up, make full (acc. Jä frq. spelt ; To fill up ; To fill ; Compare ltems
gtams	 verb-past 	gtams	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1 To fill up, make full (acc. Jä frq. spelt ; To fill up ; To fill ; Compare ltems
gtams	 verb-fut 	gtams	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1 To fill up, make full (acc. Jä frq. spelt ; To fill up ; To fill ; Compare ltems
gta'	 verb-pres 	gta'	   (archaic) To hit, strike ;
	 verb-past 	gta'	   (archaic) To hit, strike ;
	 verb-fut 	gta'	   (archaic) To hit, strike ;
gtar	 verb-pres 	gtar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bleed, blister (human beings, animals &c.) in the way of medical treatment ; To let out blood from a vein, to take out blood ; To take puss, blood from the body of a diseased person ; To let blood ;
gtar(d)	 verb-past 	gtar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bleed, blister (human beings, animals &c.) in the way of medical treatment ; To let out blood from a vein, to take out blood ; To take puss, blood from the body of a diseased person ; To let blood ;
gtar	 verb-fut 	gtar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bleed, blister (human beings, animals &c.) in the way of medical treatment ; To let out blood from a vein, to take out blood ; To take puss, blood from the body of a diseased person ; To let blood ;
gti	 verb-pres 	gti	   (archaic) To question, to speak ; (archaic & dialect) To speak, tell, say ; (archaic) To say, speak, tell ;
	 verb-past 	gti	   (archaic) To question, to speak ; (archaic & dialect) To speak, tell, say ; (archaic) To say, speak, tell ;
	 verb-fut 	gti	   (archaic) To question, to speak ; (archaic & dialect) To speak, tell, say ; (archaic) To say, speak, tell ;
gtig	 verb-pres 	gtig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To trickle down, to fall in drops, to drip ; To cause to drip, to let fall in drops ; To make something moist (e.g. water) fall down individually in droplets ; For water droplets to fall ;
gtigs	 verb-past 	gtig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To trickle down, to fall in drops, to drip ; To cause to drip, to let fall in drops ; To make something moist (e.g. water) fall down individually in droplets ; For water droplets to fall ;
gtig	 verb-fut 	gtig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To trickle down, to fall in drops, to drip ; To cause to drip, to let fall in drops ; To make something moist (e.g. water) fall down individually in droplets ; For water droplets to fall ;
gtib	 verb-pres 	gtib	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To be gathered (of clouds) ; To make overcast, to pile up, crowd together ; (for a haze of vapor &c.) To obscure a line of vision ; To pile up, come together; to darken, obscure ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC"]}
gtib	 verb-past 	gtib	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To be gathered (of clouds) ; To make overcast, to pile up, crowd together ; (for a haze of vapor &c.) To obscure a line of vision ; To pile up, come together; to darken, obscure ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC"]}
gtib	 verb-fut 	gtib	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To be gathered (of clouds) ; To make overcast, to pile up, crowd together ; (for a haze of vapor &c.) To obscure a line of vision ; To pile up, come together; to darken, obscure ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC"]}
gtug	 verb-pres 	gtug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To reach, meet with, fall down to, touch, join. 2. (acc. Sch.) to sue, to bring an action against a person ; 1. To touch, cause to come into contact. 2. To reach the climax of an appointed time. 3. To file a case ; 1. To mutually meet (someone). 2. To arrive. 3. To mutually come in contact, encounter. 4. To search for the source, origin. 5. To take the matter of a dispute to a higher authority or national government office for a decision. 6. To cause a fight ; 1. To touch, meet. 2. To visit, meet, attend on. 3. To meet, match, take on. 4. To take the matter of a dispute to higher authority for a decision ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC."]}
gtugs	 verb-past 	gtug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To reach, meet with, fall down to, touch, join. 2. (acc. Sch.) to sue, to bring an action against a person ; 1. To touch, cause to come into contact. 2. To reach the climax of an appointed time. 3. To file a case ; 1. To mutually meet (someone). 2. To arrive. 3. To mutually come in contact, encounter. 4. To search for the source, origin. 5. To take the matter of a dispute to a higher authority or national government office for a decision. 6. To cause a fight ; 1. To touch, meet. 2. To visit, meet, attend on. 3. To meet, match, take on. 4. To take the matter of a dispute to higher authority for a decision ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC."]}
gtug	 verb-fut 	gtug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To reach, meet with, fall down to, touch, join. 2. (acc. Sch.) to sue, to bring an action against a person ; 1. To touch, cause to come into contact. 2. To reach the climax of an appointed time. 3. To file a case ; 1. To mutually meet (someone). 2. To arrive. 3. To mutually come in contact, encounter. 4. To search for the source, origin. 5. To take the matter of a dispute to a higher authority or national government office for a decision. 6. To cause a fight ; 1. To touch, meet. 2. To visit, meet, attend on. 3. To meet, match, take on. 4. To take the matter of a dispute to higher authority for a decision ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC."]}
gtugs	 verb-pres 	gtugs	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To reach the end of, to run out ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC."]}
gtugs	 verb-past 	gtugs	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To reach the end of, to run out ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC."]}
gtugs	 verb-fut 	gtugs	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To reach the end of, to run out ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC."]}
gtub	 verb-pres 	gtub	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cut to pieces, cut up, chop, mince ;  To cut something up into pieces ; To chop up, cut into pieces ; Compare 'thub
gtubs	 verb-past 	gtub	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cut to pieces, cut up, chop, mince ;  To cut something up into pieces ; To chop up, cut into pieces ; Compare 'thub
gtub	 verb-fut 	gtub	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cut to pieces, cut up, chop, mince ;  To cut something up into pieces ; To chop up, cut into pieces ; Compare 'thub
gtum	 verb-pres 	gtum	 Involuntary:   To be fierce, harsh, stern ;
gtum	 verb-past 	gtum	 Involuntary:   To be fierce, harsh, stern ;
gtum	 verb-fut 	gtum	 Involuntary:   To be fierce, harsh, stern ;
gtur	 verb-pres 	gtur	   To poke, jab (?).;
gtur(d)	 verb-past 	gtur	   To poke, jab (?).;
gtur	 verb-fut 	gtur	   To poke, jab (?).;
gtul	 verb-pres 	gtul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To grind, pulverize (colors, medicinal substances &c.) ; To grind something into powder on top of something else ; 1. To make smoke (e.g. by burning incense). 2. To grind something into powder on top of something else ; Compare 'dul
gtul	 verb-past 	gtul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To grind, pulverize (colors, medicinal substances &c.) ; To grind something into powder on top of something else ; 1. To make smoke (e.g. by burning incense). 2. To grind something into powder on top of something else ; Compare 'dul
gtul	 verb-fut 	gtul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To grind, pulverize (colors, medicinal substances &c.) ; To grind something into powder on top of something else ; 1. To make smoke (e.g. by burning incense). 2. To grind something into powder on top of something else ; Compare 'dul
gtog	 verb-pres 	gtog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To grab, pluck, gather, tear out. 2. To snap the fingers ; To snap one's fingers ;
gtogs	 verb-past 	gtog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To grab, pluck, gather, tear out. 2. To snap the fingers ; To snap one's fingers ;
gtog	 verb-fut 	gtog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To grab, pluck, gather, tear out. 2. To snap the fingers ; To snap one's fingers ;
gtog	 verb-pres 	gtog	  
btags	 verb-past 	gtog	  
gtag	 verb-fut 	gtog	  
gtogs	 verb-pres 	gtogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To assign, classify. 2. To belong to, appertain to ; To belong, include, appertain ; 1. To belong to. 2. To have power. 3. To meet, adhere to a standard, limit ; To be included with, to belong to ;
gtogs	 verb-past 	gtogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To assign, classify. 2. To belong to, appertain to ; To belong, include, appertain ; 1. To belong to. 2. To have power. 3. To meet, adhere to a standard, limit ; To be included with, to belong to ;
gtogs	 verb-fut 	gtogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To assign, classify. 2. To belong to, appertain to ; To belong, include, appertain ; 1. To belong to. 2. To have power. 3. To meet, adhere to a standard, limit ; To be included with, to belong to ;
gtong	 verb-pres 	gtong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To send, to let go, to permit to go, to dismiss ; To dispatch, send ; 1. To free from bondage and let roam independent. 2. To do. 3. To use (e.g. money). 4. To discard, give away. 5. To confer (e.g. a letter, message). 6. To emit, excrete (e.g. breath, urine, excrement) ; 1. To give, hand over. 2. To abandon, discard. 3. To release, let go, leave off. 4. To send, dispatch, appoint, commission. 5. To drive, steer. 7. To do ;
btang	 verb-past 	gtong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To send, to let go, to permit to go, to dismiss ; To dispatch, send ; 1. To free from bondage and let roam independent. 2. To do. 3. To use (e.g. money). 4. To discard, give away. 5. To confer (e.g. a letter, message). 6. To emit, excrete (e.g. breath, urine, excrement) ; 1. To give, hand over. 2. To abandon, discard. 3. To release, let go, leave off. 4. To send, dispatch, appoint, commission. 5. To drive, steer. 7. To do ;
gtang	 verb-fut 	gtong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To send, to let go, to permit to go, to dismiss ; To dispatch, send ; 1. To free from bondage and let roam independent. 2. To do. 3. To use (e.g. money). 4. To discard, give away. 5. To confer (e.g. a letter, message). 6. To emit, excrete (e.g. breath, urine, excrement) ; 1. To give, hand over. 2. To abandon, discard. 3. To release, let go, leave off. 4. To send, dispatch, appoint, commission. 5. To drive, steer. 7. To do ;
gtong	 verb-pres 	gtong	  
btang	 verb-past 	gtong	  
gtang	 verb-fut 	gtong	  
gtod	 verb-pres 	gtod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To deliver up, hand over, to commit to another, to bestow, confer ; To give a responsibility, to entrust a duty, to aim, to concentrate, imagine ; 1. To believe. 2. To entrust, commit. 3. To open up. 4. To face. 5. To be undistracted, unwavering ; To entrust to, give to. 2. To face. 3. To concentrate, remain undistracted ;
gtad	 verb-past 	gtod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To deliver up, hand over, to commit to another, to bestow, confer ; To give a responsibility, to entrust a duty, to aim, to concentrate, imagine ; 1. To believe. 2. To entrust, commit. 3. To open up. 4. To face. 5. To be undistracted, unwavering ; To entrust to, give to. 2. To face. 3. To concentrate, remain undistracted ;
gtad	 verb-fut 	gtod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To deliver up, hand over, to commit to another, to bestow, confer ; To give a responsibility, to entrust a duty, to aim, to concentrate, imagine ; 1. To believe. 2. To entrust, commit. 3. To open up. 4. To face. 5. To be undistracted, unwavering ; To entrust to, give to. 2. To face. 3. To concentrate, remain undistracted ;
gtod	 verb-pres 	gtod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To newly establish (a road, tradition &c.). 2. To produce, to make ; To newly make, newly found ; In the colloquial language the three: past, future, present, are not distinguished but are all btod
btod	 verb-past 	gtod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To newly establish (a road, tradition &c.). 2. To produce, to make ; To newly make, newly found ; In the colloquial language the three: past, future, present, are not distinguished but are all btod
gtod	 verb-fut 	gtod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To newly establish (a road, tradition &c.). 2. To produce, to make ; To newly make, newly found ; In the colloquial language the three: past, future, present, are not distinguished but are all btod
gtol	 verb-pres 	gtol	   (acc. Sch.) To perforate, pierce; to discover, disclose ; 1. To pierce, prick. 2. To ascertain. 3. To familiarize, acquaint, find solutions, methods ; (archaic) 1. To route out wrongdoings. 2. To pierce, open a hole ;
btol(d)	 verb-past 	gtol	   (acc. Sch.) To perforate, pierce; to discover, disclose ; 1. To pierce, prick. 2. To ascertain. 3. To familiarize, acquaint, find solutions, methods ; (archaic) 1. To route out wrongdoings. 2. To pierce, open a hole ;
gtol	 verb-fut 	gtol	   (acc. Sch.) To perforate, pierce; to discover, disclose ; 1. To pierce, prick. 2. To ascertain. 3. To familiarize, acquaint, find solutions, methods ; (archaic) 1. To route out wrongdoings. 2. To pierce, open a hole ;
	 verb-pres 	btungs	   To kill ;
btungs 	 verb-past 	btungs	   To kill ;
	 verb-fut 	btungs	   To kill ;
rtag	 verb-pres 	rtag	 Involuntary:  
rtag	 verb-past 	rtag	 Involuntary:  
	 verb-fut 	rtag	 Involuntary:  
rtob	 verb-pres 	rtab	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   (acc. Jä = ;1. To cause to be in a hurry, to hurry. 2. To cause to be afraid. 3. To apprehend;To become restless, impatient ;To be afraid, terrified;
brtabs	 verb-past 	rtab	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   (acc. Jä = ;1. To cause to be in a hurry, to hurry. 2. To cause to be afraid. 3. To apprehend;To become restless, impatient ;To be afraid, terrified;
brtab	 verb-fut 	rtab	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   (acc. Jä = ;1. To cause to be in a hurry, to hurry. 2. To cause to be afraid. 3. To apprehend;To become restless, impatient ;To be afraid, terrified;
rtas	 verb-pres 	rtas	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To grow wide, expand, be copious, abundant ; To cause to grow up, to increase, enlarge ; To grow in size, spread ; To grow, increase ;
brtas	 verb-past 	rtas	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To grow wide, expand, be copious, abundant ; To cause to grow up, to increase, enlarge ; To grow in size, spread ; To grow, increase ;
brta	 verb-fut 	rtas	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To grow wide, expand, be copious, abundant ; To cause to grow up, to increase, enlarge ; To grow in size, spread ; To grow, increase ;
rtib	 verb-pres 	rtib	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To break, pull down. 2. (in Sikkim) To beat thoroughly, thrash ; To indent, make a mark on something ;
brtibs	 verb-past 	rtib	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To break, pull down. 2. (in Sikkim) To beat thoroughly, thrash ; To indent, make a mark on something ;
brtib	 verb-fut 	rtib	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To break, pull down. 2. (in Sikkim) To beat thoroughly, thrash ; To indent, make a mark on something ;
rtung	 verb-pres 	rtung	   To make less, to shorten, to contract (Jä) ; Compare the variant of this verb stung
brtungs	 verb-past 	rtung	   To make less, to shorten, to contract (Jä) ; Compare the variant of this verb stung
brtung	 verb-fut 	rtung	   To make less, to shorten, to contract (Jä) ; Compare the variant of this verb stung
rtun	 verb-pres 	rtun	   To try hard, to make constant effort ;
brtun(d)	 verb-past 	rtun	   To try hard, to make constant effort ;
brtun	 verb-fut 	rtun	   To try hard, to make constant effort ;
rtul	 verb-pres 	rtul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To blunder, cause to become blunt, cause to become foolish ; 1. To conclude, draw to a close, to gather up, draw together. 2. To tame. 3. (archaic) To strive, exert ;
brtul(d)	 verb-past 	rtul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To blunder, cause to become blunt, cause to become foolish ; 1. To conclude, draw to a close, to gather up, draw together. 2. To tame. 3. (archaic) To strive, exert ;
brtul	 verb-fut 	rtul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To blunder, cause to become blunt, cause to become foolish ; 1. To conclude, draw to a close, to gather up, draw together. 2. To tame. 3. (archaic) To strive, exert ;
rten	 verb-pres 	rten	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To keep, hold, adhere to, lean on ; To base on, depend on, rest upon ; To rely on, depend on ; 1. To rely on, use as a support. 2. To stay, remain, live ;
brten(d)	 verb-past 	rten	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To keep, hold, adhere to, lean on ; To base on, depend on, rest upon ; To rely on, depend on ; 1. To rely on, use as a support. 2. To stay, remain, live ;
brten	 verb-fut 	rten	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To keep, hold, adhere to, lean on ; To base on, depend on, rest upon ; To rely on, depend on ; 1. To rely on, use as a support. 2. To stay, remain, live ;
rtog	 verb-pres 	rtog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To consider, examine, search into, muse upon ; To examine, interrogate, experiment ; 1. To make a small idea deeper. 2. To make judgments, after carefully examining the good and bad qualities of something ; To coarsely investigate, analyze, judge ;
brtags	 verb-past 	rtog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To consider, examine, search into, muse upon ; To examine, interrogate, experiment ; 1. To make a small idea deeper. 2. To make judgments, after carefully examining the good and bad qualities of something ; To coarsely investigate, analyze, judge ;
brtag	 verb-fut 	rtog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To consider, examine, search into, muse upon ; To examine, interrogate, experiment ; 1. To make a small idea deeper. 2. To make judgments, after carefully examining the good and bad qualities of something ; To coarsely investigate, analyze, judge ;
rtog	 verb-pres 	rtogs	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To perceive, to know, to understand ; To ascertain, confirm, to understand ; To understand a meaning after analysis ; To know ;
rtogs	 verb-past 	rtogs	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To perceive, to know, to understand ; To ascertain, confirm, to understand ; To understand a meaning after analysis ; To know ;
rtogs	 verb-fut 	rtogs	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To perceive, to know, to understand ; To ascertain, confirm, to understand ; To understand a meaning after analysis ; To know ;
rtod	 verb-pres 	rtod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fasten, secure, tether ; To tie, to fasten with pegs ; To fasten cattle with a long rope in a grassy place to let them pasture ;
brtod	 verb-past 	rtod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fasten, secure, tether ; To tie, to fasten with pegs ; To fasten cattle with a long rope in a grassy place to let them pasture ;
brtod	 verb-fut 	rtod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fasten, secure, tether ; To tie, to fasten with pegs ; To fasten cattle with a long rope in a grassy place to let them pasture ;
rton(d)	 verb-pres 	rton	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To place confidence in a person, to rely on, to adhere to, to act in accordance with ; To trust, to have faith ; To believe ; To trust, have confidence in, believe ;
rton(d)	 verb-past 	rton	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To place confidence in a person, to rely on, to adhere to, to act in accordance with ; To trust, to have faith ; To believe ; To trust, have confidence in, believe ;
rton	 verb-fut 	rton	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To place confidence in a person, to rely on, to adhere to, to act in accordance with ; To trust, to have faith ; To believe ; To trust, have confidence in, believe ;
rtol	 verb-pres 	rtol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To bore, to pierce, to perforate. 2. To be present in, at, to reach ; 1. To pierce, to penetrate, hollow out, to prick holes ; 1. To make a hole. 2. To show clearly ; To dig, bore, dig out ;
brtol(d)	 verb-past 	rtol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To bore, to pierce, to perforate. 2. To be present in, at, to reach ; 1. To pierce, to penetrate, hollow out, to prick holes ; 1. To make a hole. 2. To show clearly ; To dig, bore, dig out ;
brtol	 verb-fut 	rtol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To bore, to pierce, to perforate. 2. To be present in, at, to reach ; 1. To pierce, to penetrate, hollow out, to prick holes ; 1. To make a hole. 2. To show clearly ; To dig, bore, dig out ;
rtol	 verb-pres 	rtol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To arrive, to reach a place, destination ; To arrive ;
brtol(d)	 verb-past 	rtol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To arrive, to reach a place, destination ; To arrive ;
brtol	 verb-fut 	rtol	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To arrive, to reach a place, destination ; To arrive ;
lta	 verb-pres 	lta	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To look, take a look at, espy. 2. (common in West) To look for, to search for. 3. To view mentally, to consider, look into, examine, investigate ; To look, to see ; 1. To see with the eyes. 2. To examine, investigate. 3. To visit, see, call on. 4. To desire, crave, love. 5. To think, consider, ponder ; 1. To see, know with the eyes. 2. To research, examine, analyze. 3. To desire, crave, love ;
bltas	 verb-past 	lta	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To look, take a look at, espy. 2. (common in West) To look for, to search for. 3. To view mentally, to consider, look into, examine, investigate ; To look, to see ; 1. To see with the eyes. 2. To examine, investigate. 3. To visit, see, call on. 4. To desire, crave, love. 5. To think, consider, ponder ; 1. To see, know with the eyes. 2. To research, examine, analyze. 3. To desire, crave, love ;
blta	 verb-fut 	lta	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To look, take a look at, espy. 2. (common in West) To look for, to search for. 3. To view mentally, to consider, look into, examine, investigate ; To look, to see ; 1. To see with the eyes. 2. To examine, investigate. 3. To visit, see, call on. 4. To desire, crave, love. 5. To think, consider, ponder ; 1. To see, know with the eyes. 2. To research, examine, analyze. 3. To desire, crave, love ;
lta	 verb-pres 	lta	 Voluntary:   To read ;
	 verb-past 	lta	 Voluntary:   To read ;
	 verb-fut 	lta	 Voluntary:   To read ;
ltan	 verb-pres 	ltan	   (archaic) To come, arrive, receive, get ;
	 verb-past 	ltan	   (archaic) To come, arrive, receive, get ;
	 verb-fut 	ltan	   (archaic) To come, arrive, receive, get ;
bltams	 verb-pres 	ltam	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   (honorific) To be born ; To cause to be born, to give birth to ; (honorific) To give birth to a child ; To bear a child, give birth to a child ;
bltams	 verb-past 	ltam	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   (honorific) To be born ; To cause to be born, to give birth to ; (honorific) To give birth to a child ; To bear a child, give birth to a child ;
bltams	 verb-fut 	ltam	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   (honorific) To be born ; To cause to be born, to give birth to ; (honorific) To give birth to a child ; To bear a child, give birth to a child ;
ltung	 verb-pres 	ltung	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To fall, to fall down ; To cause to fall down ; 1. To fall down. 2. To become smaller, fewer ; To fall down ; Root given as ltung < t + lhung (Hahn 1999: 125).
ltung	 verb-past 	ltung	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To fall, to fall down ; To cause to fall down ; 1. To fall down. 2. To become smaller, fewer ; To fall down ; Root given as ltung < t + lhung (Hahn 1999: 125).
ltung	 verb-fut 	ltung	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To fall, to fall down ; To cause to fall down ; 1. To fall down. 2. To become smaller, fewer ; To fall down ; Root given as ltung < t + lhung (Hahn 1999: 125).
lteb	 verb-pres 	lteb	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fold, gather up, to lay together, put together ; To fold up (clothes &c.) ; To bend a flat thing and stack one of its two faces upon the other ; To bend something back and forth and stack one of its two faces upon the other ;
bltabs	 verb-past 	lteb	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fold, gather up, to lay together, put together ; To fold up (clothes &c.) ; To bend a flat thing and stack one of its two faces upon the other ; To bend something back and forth and stack one of its two faces upon the other ;
bltab	 verb-fut 	lteb	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fold, gather up, to lay together, put together ; To fold up (clothes &c.) ; To bend a flat thing and stack one of its two faces upon the other ; To bend something back and forth and stack one of its two faces upon the other ;
ltem	 verb-pres 	ltem	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) To be sick ;
ltem	 verb-past 	ltem	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) To be sick ;
ltem	 verb-fut 	ltem	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (honorific) To be sick ;
ltam	 verb-pres 	ltems	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To be full ; To fill ; 1. To fill up a vessel with something. 2. To attain, obtain much ; Compare gtams
bltams	 verb-past 	ltems	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To be full ; To fill ; 1. To fill up a vessel with something. 2. To attain, obtain much ; Compare gtams
bltam	 verb-fut 	ltems	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To be full ; To fill ; 1. To fill up a vessel with something. 2. To attain, obtain much ; Compare gtams
ltogs	 verb-pres 	ltogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be hungry. 2. (acc. Sch.) To regret ; To feel hungry ; To want to eat food when the stomach is empty of food ; The feeling which arises when there is no food ;
ltogs	 verb-past 	ltogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be hungry. 2. (acc. Sch.) To regret ; To feel hungry ; To want to eat food when the stomach is empty of food ; The feeling which arises when there is no food ;
ltog	 verb-fut 	ltogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be hungry. 2. (acc. Sch.) To regret ; To feel hungry ; To want to eat food when the stomach is empty of food ; The feeling which arises when there is no food ;
ltos	 verb-pres 	ltos	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To attend to, look at, on, to (akin to ; To examine, compare, evaluate ;  To mutually interact, for one thing to depend upon another ;
ltos	 verb-past 	ltos	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To attend to, look at, on, to (akin to ; To examine, compare, evaluate ;  To mutually interact, for one thing to depend upon another ;
ltos	 verb-fut 	ltos	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To attend to, look at, on, to (akin to ; To examine, compare, evaluate ;  To mutually interact, for one thing to depend upon another ;
stangs	 verb-pres 	stangs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To help, to aid, to give help ;
bstangs	 verb-past 	stangs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To help, to aid, to give help ;
bstang	 verb-fut 	stangs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To help, to aid, to give help ;
stad	 verb-pres 	stad	   To load, to put on, to lay on ; To turn, to turn one's face, to give, to get ready ;
bstad	 verb-past 	stad	   To load, to put on, to lay on ; To turn, to turn one's face, to give, to get ready ;
bstad	 verb-fut 	stad	   To load, to put on, to lay on ; To turn, to turn one's face, to give, to get ready ;
rtab	 verb-pres 	rtab	   (acc. Sch.) To suffer, tolerate, yield ;
	 verb-past 	rtab	   (acc. Sch.) To suffer, tolerate, yield ;
	 verb-fut 	rtab	   (acc. Sch.) To suffer, tolerate, yield ;
star	 verb-pres 	star	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To file on a string (e.g. pearls), to tie, fasten to. 2. To clean, polish ; 1. To practice, take an action. 2. To arrange, line up. 3. To put on. 4. To clean ; 1. To set up, arrange. 2. To take in hand, do. 3. To decorate, adorn, embellish ; Perhaps not to be divided form stor
bstar(d)	 verb-past 	star	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To file on a string (e.g. pearls), to tie, fasten to. 2. To clean, polish ; 1. To practice, take an action. 2. To arrange, line up. 3. To put on. 4. To clean ; 1. To set up, arrange. 2. To take in hand, do. 3. To decorate, adorn, embellish ; Perhaps not to be divided form stor
bstar	 verb-fut 	star	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To file on a string (e.g. pearls), to tie, fasten to. 2. To clean, polish ; 1. To practice, take an action. 2. To arrange, line up. 3. To put on. 4. To clean ; 1. To set up, arrange. 2. To take in hand, do. 3. To decorate, adorn, embellish ; Perhaps not to be divided form stor
sti	 verb-pres 	sti	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To rest, take rest, repose, refresh oneself. 2. To honor ; To take, have rest, to stay restfully, to cause to situate ; (archaic) To rest, relax, vacation ; To stay in order to rest, relax ;
bstis	 verb-past 	sti	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To rest, take rest, repose, refresh oneself. 2. To honor ; To take, have rest, to stay restfully, to cause to situate ; (archaic) To rest, relax, vacation ; To stay in order to rest, relax ;
bsti	 verb-fut 	sti	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To rest, take rest, repose, refresh oneself. 2. To honor ; To take, have rest, to stay restfully, to cause to situate ; (archaic) To rest, relax, vacation ; To stay in order to rest, relax ;
sting	 verb-pres 	sting	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To rebuke, scold, abuse ; (archaic) To threaten, menace, scold, insult ; 1. To verbally point out faults in an abusive manner. 2. To belittle, disparage ; Compare steng
bstings	 verb-past 	sting	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To rebuke, scold, abuse ; (archaic) To threaten, menace, scold, insult ; 1. To verbally point out faults in an abusive manner. 2. To belittle, disparage ; Compare steng
bsting	 verb-fut 	sting	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To rebuke, scold, abuse ; (archaic) To threaten, menace, scold, insult ; 1. To verbally point out faults in an abusive manner. 2. To belittle, disparage ; Compare steng
stib	 verb-pres 	stib	   (rare) To offer (sacrifice) (Jä) ; To offer, worship, cause to collapse ;
bstibs	 verb-past 	stib	   (rare) To offer (sacrifice) (Jä) ; To offer, worship, cause to collapse ;
bstib	 verb-fut 	stib	   (rare) To offer (sacrifice) (Jä) ; To offer, worship, cause to collapse ;
stim	 verb-pres 	stim	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To enter, penetrate, pervade, be absorbed in ; To absorb, cause to merge ; 1. To mix, combine into an undifferentiated essence, to cause to dissolve, combine. 2. To give, send ; To combine, mix, dissolve as undivided, inseparable ;
bstims	 verb-past 	stim	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To enter, penetrate, pervade, be absorbed in ; To absorb, cause to merge ; 1. To mix, combine into an undifferentiated essence, to cause to dissolve, combine. 2. To give, send ; To combine, mix, dissolve as undivided, inseparable ;
bstim	 verb-fut 	stim	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To enter, penetrate, pervade, be absorbed in ; To absorb, cause to merge ; 1. To mix, combine into an undifferentiated essence, to cause to dissolve, combine. 2. To give, send ; To combine, mix, dissolve as undivided, inseparable ;
stir	 verb-pres 	stir	   To take, have a rest ; Likely a derivative of sti
bstir(d)	 verb-past 	stir	   To take, have a rest ; Likely a derivative of sti
bstir	 verb-fut 	stir	   To take, have a rest ; Likely a derivative of sti
stug	 verb-pres 	stug	   To thicken, make thicker ; Perhaps to be compared with bstugs
bstugs	 verb-past 	stug	   To thicken, make thicker ; Perhaps to be compared with bstugs
bstug	 verb-fut 	stug	   To thicken, make thicker ; Perhaps to be compared with bstugs
stung	 verb-pres 	stung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To shorten, to near, draw near ; 1. To make shorter. 2. To make fewer ; To make shorter ; Compare the variant of this verb rtung
bstungs	 verb-past 	stung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To shorten, to near, draw near ; 1. To make shorter. 2. To make fewer ; To make shorter ; Compare the variant of this verb rtung
bstung	 verb-fut 	stung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To shorten, to near, draw near ; 1. To make shorter. 2. To make fewer ; To make shorter ; Compare the variant of this verb rtung
stud	 verb-pres 	stud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To repeat, reiterate, give, offer repeatedly ; To piece on to join, to bow in greeting ; To interrupt, cut a continuum, interstices ; To break, cut a continuum ;
bstud	 verb-past 	stud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To repeat, reiterate, give, offer repeatedly ; To piece on to join, to bow in greeting ; To interrupt, cut a continuum, interstices ; To break, cut a continuum ;
bstud	 verb-fut 	stud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To repeat, reiterate, give, offer repeatedly ; To piece on to join, to bow in greeting ; To interrupt, cut a continuum, interstices ; To break, cut a continuum ;
stun(d)	 verb-pres 	stun	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To agree, to be accordant with ; To smash in a mortar with a pestle ; To be in harmony, accord, to follow after ; To rely on, accord with another ;
bstun(d)	 verb-past 	stun	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To agree, to be accordant with ; To smash in a mortar with a pestle ; To be in harmony, accord, to follow after ; To rely on, accord with another ;
bstun	 verb-fut 	stun	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To agree, to be accordant with ; To smash in a mortar with a pestle ; To be in harmony, accord, to follow after ; To rely on, accord with another ;
steg	 verb-pres 	steg	Intransitive:    To dance &c. ;
steg	 verb-past 	steg	Intransitive:    To dance &c. ;
steg	 verb-fut 	steg	Intransitive:    To dance &c. ;
steng	 verb-pres 	steng	   The autograph almost certainly read sting
bstengs	 verb-past 	steng	   The autograph almost certainly read sting
bsteng	 verb-fut 	steng	   The autograph almost certainly read sting
sten	 verb-pres 	sten	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. (akin to ; 1. To accompany, keep as a teacher. 2. To cause to be together ; 1. To request to be a student. 2. To do, behave, use. 3. To be firm in mind, find key mental points ; To stay near, serve, accompany ;
bsten	 verb-past 	sten	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. (akin to ; 1. To accompany, keep as a teacher. 2. To cause to be together ; 1. To request to be a student. 2. To do, behave, use. 3. To be firm in mind, find key mental points ; To stay near, serve, accompany ;
bsten	 verb-fut 	sten	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. (akin to ; 1. To accompany, keep as a teacher. 2. To cause to be together ; 1. To request to be a student. 2. To do, behave, use. 3. To be firm in mind, find key mental points ; To stay near, serve, accompany ;
stem	 verb-pres 	stem	   (seems to occur in popular literature and in colloquial) To shut, fasten (a door), to block (with a beam, bar) ; (archaic) 1. To press. 2. To hit, strike. 3. To close a door ;
stems	 verb-past 	stem	   (seems to occur in popular literature and in colloquial) To shut, fasten (a door), to block (with a beam, bar) ; (archaic) 1. To press. 2. To hit, strike. 3. To close a door ;
stems	 verb-fut 	stem	   (seems to occur in popular literature and in colloquial) To shut, fasten (a door), to block (with a beam, bar) ; (archaic) 1. To press. 2. To hit, strike. 3. To close a door ;
ster	 verb-pres 	ster	Transitive:  Involuntary:   1. To grant, give, bestow. 2. (in the West) to feed, give food, drink (Jä) ;
ster(d)	 verb-past 	ster	Transitive:  Involuntary:   1. To grant, give, bestow. 2. (in the West) to feed, give food, drink (Jä) ;
ster	 verb-fut 	ster	Transitive:  Involuntary:   1. To grant, give, bestow. 2. (in the West) to feed, give food, drink (Jä) ;
stong	 verb-pres 	stong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To make empty, to be empty, become waste or desolate ; To become empty, be empty ; To finish, become nonexistent ; To be empty, become finished. ;
stongs	 verb-past 	stong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To make empty, to be empty, become waste or desolate ; To become empty, be empty ; To finish, become nonexistent ; To be empty, become finished. ;
stong	 verb-fut 	stong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To make empty, to be empty, become waste or desolate ; To become empty, be empty ; To finish, become nonexistent ; To be empty, become finished. ;
stongs	 verb-pres 	stongs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To accompany ; To help, benefit ; To give help, aide ; To ripen, mature, help, give aide ;
bstangs	 verb-past 	stongs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To accompany ; To help, benefit ; To give help, aide ; To ripen, mature, help, give aide ;
bstang	 verb-fut 	stongs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To accompany ; To help, benefit ; To give help, aide ; To ripen, mature, help, give aide ;
stod	 verb-pres 	stod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To tether cattle (such as horses) (Situ 75) ; 1. To saddle, affix a saddle on an animal. 2. To fly high (as a bird or airplane) ; 1. To make preparations. 2. To turn toward ;
bstad	 verb-past 	stod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To tether cattle (such as horses) (Situ 75) ; 1. To saddle, affix a saddle on an animal. 2. To fly high (as a bird or airplane) ; 1. To make preparations. 2. To turn toward ;
bstad	 verb-fut 	stod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To tether cattle (such as horses) (Situ 75) ; 1. To saddle, affix a saddle on an animal. 2. To fly high (as a bird or airplane) ; 1. To make preparations. 2. To turn toward ;
ston	 verb-pres 	ston	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To show, indicate (acc. of thing shown, dat. of person shown to) ; To show, guide, preach ; 1. To make someone see a goal. 2. To speak, tell. 3. To make someone understand or see something manifest ; 1. To speak, tell. 2. To make someone understand something manifest ;
bstan	 verb-past 	ston	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To show, indicate (acc. of thing shown, dat. of person shown to) ; To show, guide, preach ; 1. To make someone see a goal. 2. To speak, tell. 3. To make someone understand or see something manifest ; 1. To speak, tell. 2. To make someone understand something manifest ;
bstan	 verb-fut 	ston	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To show, indicate (acc. of thing shown, dat. of person shown to) ; To show, guide, preach ; 1. To make someone see a goal. 2. To speak, tell. 3. To make someone understand or see something manifest ; 1. To speak, tell. 2. To make someone understand something manifest ;
stob	 verb-pres 	stob	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To put into another's mouth, to feed. 2. To offer, make a donation ; To give, give and take ; To give, offer something to another (e.g. food) ; To offer, give ;
bstabs	 verb-past 	stob	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To put into another's mouth, to feed. 2. To offer, make a donation ; To give, give and take ; To give, offer something to another (e.g. food) ; To offer, give ;
bstab	 verb-fut 	stob	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To put into another's mouth, to feed. 2. To offer, make a donation ; To give, give and take ; To give, offer something to another (e.g. food) ; To offer, give ;
stor	 verb-pres 	stor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To destroy, crush ; To join together with rope or twine and bring together ; 1. To break, scatter, disperse. 2. To clean ; Perhaps not to be divided from star
bstor(d)	 verb-past 	stor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To destroy, crush ; To join together with rope or twine and bring together ; 1. To break, scatter, disperse. 2. To clean ; Perhaps not to be divided from star
bstor	 verb-fut 	stor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To destroy, crush ; To join together with rope or twine and bring together ; 1. To break, scatter, disperse. 2. To clean ; Perhaps not to be divided from star
stor	 verb-pres 	stor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To go astray, to be lost ; To leave behind ; To leave behind, loose ;
stor(d)	 verb-past 	stor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To go astray, to be lost ; To leave behind ; To leave behind, loose ;
stor	 verb-fut 	stor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To go astray, to be lost ; To leave behind ; To leave behind, loose ;
stos	 verb-pres 	stos	   (archaic) To give ; To give, grant, distribute ;
	 verb-past 	stos	   (archaic) To give ; To give, grant, distribute ;
	 verb-fut 	stos	   (archaic) To give ; To give, grant, distribute ;
brtan	 verb-pres 	brtan	   Surely to be linked with rton
brtan(d)	 verb-past 	brtan	   Surely to be linked with rton
brtan	 verb-fut 	brtan	   Surely to be linked with rton
brtul	 verb-pres 	brtul	   To conquer ;
	 verb-past 	brtul	   To conquer ;
	 verb-fut 	brtul	   To conquer ;
bstar	 verb-pres 	bstar	Transitive:    1. To sweep, clean, cleanse. 2. To appreciate, be aware of (Liç) ; 1. To practice, experience take in hand. 2. To purify, make clean ; Compare star
bstar	 verb-past 	bstar	Transitive:    1. To sweep, clean, cleanse. 2. To appreciate, be aware of (Liç) ; 1. To practice, experience take in hand. 2. To purify, make clean ; Compare star
bstar	 verb-fut 	bstar	Transitive:    1. To sweep, clean, cleanse. 2. To appreciate, be aware of (Liç) ; 1. To practice, experience take in hand. 2. To purify, make clean ; Compare star
bstu	 verb-pres 	bstu	   To bring together discordant elements, to collect in one heap things unlike one another ;
	 verb-past 	bstu	   To bring together discordant elements, to collect in one heap things unlike one another ;
	 verb-fut 	bstu	   To bring together discordant elements, to collect in one heap things unlike one another ;
bstugs	 verb-pres 	bstugs	   To maker lower, to lower (Sch.) ;
	 verb-past 	bstugs	   To maker lower, to lower (Sch.) ;
	 verb-fut 	bstugs	   To maker lower, to lower (Sch.) ;
bstun	 verb-pres 	bstun	   To be compared ; To accord with, to cause to comply ; Not to be differentiated from stun
bstun(d)	 verb-past 	bstun	   To be compared ; To accord with, to cause to comply ; Not to be differentiated from stun
bstun	 verb-fut 	bstun	   To be compared ; To accord with, to cause to comply ; Not to be differentiated from stun
bstod	 verb-pres 	bstod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To praise, commend, laud ; To praise, to express one's admiration ; To say good things about qualities ; To praise ;
bstod	 verb-past 	bstod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To praise, commend, laud ; To praise, to express one's admiration ; To say good things about qualities ; To praise ;
bstod	 verb-fut 	bstod	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To praise, commend, laud ; To praise, to express one's admiration ; To say good things about qualities ; To praise ;
thad	 verb-pres 	thad	 Involuntary:  (honorific) To go ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Tournadre & Dorje 2003: 210) "]}
thad	 verb-past 	thad	 Involuntary:  (honorific) To go ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Tournadre & Dorje 2003: 210) "]}
thad	 verb-fut 	thad	 Involuntary:  (honorific) To go ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Tournadre & Dorje 2003: 210) "]}
thams	 verb-pres 	thams	   1. To lock together, hold fast with the arms (either in love or with anger). 2. To stick fast ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Hahn 1973: 430)"]}
	 verb-past 	thams	   1. To lock together, hold fast with the arms (either in love or with anger). 2. To stick fast ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Hahn 1973: 430)"]}
	 verb-fut 	thams	   1. To lock together, hold fast with the arms (either in love or with anger). 2. To stick fast ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Hahn 1973: 430)"]}
thar(d)	 verb-pres 	thar	Transitive: Involuntary:   1. To be freed, to be liberated. 2. To escape, get through, be able, pass ; To be freed, liberated, to get through, cross a bar ; To become free, to escape, slip away ;
thar(d)	 verb-past 	thar	Transitive: Involuntary:   1. To be freed, to be liberated. 2. To escape, get through, be able, pass ; To be freed, liberated, to get through, cross a bar ; To become free, to escape, slip away ;
thar	 verb-fut 	thar	Transitive: Involuntary:   1. To be freed, to be liberated. 2. To escape, get through, be able, pass ; To be freed, liberated, to get through, cross a bar ; To become free, to escape, slip away ;
thal(d)	 verb-pres 	thal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To pass, to step by, to step beyond, miss a mark. 2. To elapse, be passed, to change, pass from. 3. To go, pass through. 4. To come, to get to, to arrive at. 5. To be over, past, finished, done ; To cross a limitation, to pass beyond ; To leave, go away ; 1. To exceed the limit, overdo. 2. To go. 3. To go unimpeded ;
thal(d)	 verb-past 	thal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To pass, to step by, to step beyond, miss a mark. 2. To elapse, be passed, to change, pass from. 3. To go, pass through. 4. To come, to get to, to arrive at. 5. To be over, past, finished, done ; To cross a limitation, to pass beyond ; To leave, go away ; 1. To exceed the limit, overdo. 2. To go. 3. To go unimpeded ;
thal	 verb-fut 	thal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To pass, to step by, to step beyond, miss a mark. 2. To elapse, be passed, to change, pass from. 3. To go, pass through. 4. To come, to get to, to arrive at. 5. To be over, past, finished, done ; To cross a limitation, to pass beyond ; To leave, go away ; 1. To exceed the limit, overdo. 2. To go. 3. To go unimpeded ;
thig	 verb-pres 	thig	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To be able to meet, adhere to a standard, limit ; To know a standard, be able to adhere to a standard ;
thig	 verb-past 	thig	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To be able to meet, adhere to a standard, limit ; To know a standard, be able to adhere to a standard ;
thig	 verb-fut 	thig	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To be able to meet, adhere to a standard, limit ; To know a standard, be able to adhere to a standard ;
thigs	 verb-pres 	thigs	Intransitive:    To fall down (as droplets of water &c.) ; Compare 'thig
thigs	 verb-past 	thigs	Intransitive:    To fall down (as droplets of water &c.) ; Compare 'thig
thigs	 verb-fut 	thigs	Intransitive:    To fall down (as droplets of water &c.) ; Compare 'thig
things	 verb-pres 	thing	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To come clearly to the ear. 2. To come, arrive, to receive, obtain ; To arrive, meet, reach ;
things	 verb-past 	thing	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To come clearly to the ear. 2. To come, arrive, to receive, obtain ; To arrive, meet, reach ;
things	 verb-fut 	thing	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To come clearly to the ear. 2. To come, arrive, to receive, obtain ; To arrive, meet, reach ;
thu	 verb-pres 	thu	   To pluck, collect flowers ;
	 verb-past 	thu	   To pluck, collect flowers ;
	 verb-fut 	thu	   To pluck, collect flowers ;
'thug	 verb-pres 	thug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To reach, arrive at, come to. 2. To interview, to encounter, to meet, to light upon ; To meet ; 1. To meet. 2. To arrive ; To meet ;
thug	 verb-past 	thug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To reach, arrive at, come to. 2. To interview, to encounter, to meet, to light upon ; To meet ; 1. To meet. 2. To arrive ; To meet ;
thug	 verb-fut 	thug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To reach, arrive at, come to. 2. To interview, to encounter, to meet, to light upon ; To meet ; 1. To meet. 2. To arrive ; To meet ;
thug	 verb-pres 	thug	Transitive:  Involuntary:   (colloquial) To touch, to hit, strike against; To touch, reach ; To touch ; To touch ;
thug	 verb-past 	thug	Transitive:  Involuntary:   (colloquial) To touch, to hit, strike against; To touch, reach ; To touch ; To touch ;
thug	 verb-fut 	thug	Transitive:  Involuntary:   (colloquial) To touch, to hit, strike against; To touch, reach ; To touch ; To touch ;
btub	 verb-pres 	thub	Transitive:    To be able ; To enable, to make able ; To be able ;
btubs	 verb-past 	thub	Transitive:    To be able ; To enable, to make able ; To be able ;
btub	 verb-fut 	thub	Transitive:    To be able ; To enable, to make able ; To be able ;
thub	 verb-pres 	thub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (potential verb with accusative or root of another verb) To be able, capable of, to withstand, to be equal to ; To be able, to be capable of ; (when suffixed to the present or future of a verb) To be able to do that verb ; To have an opportunity to, to be able to ;
thub	 verb-past 	thub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (potential verb with accusative or root of another verb) To be able, capable of, to withstand, to be equal to ; To be able, to be capable of ; (when suffixed to the present or future of a verb) To be able to do that verb ; To have an opportunity to, to be able to ;
thub	 verb-fut 	thub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (potential verb with accusative or root of another verb) To be able, capable of, to withstand, to be equal to ; To be able, to be capable of ; (when suffixed to the present or future of a verb) To be able to do that verb ; To have an opportunity to, to be able to ;
thub	 verb-pres 	thub	Intransitive:    (when suffixed to a noun) To prevail, withstand (that noun) ;
thub	 verb-past 	thub	Intransitive:    (when suffixed to a noun) To prevail, withstand (that noun) ;
thub	 verb-fut 	thub	Intransitive:    (when suffixed to a noun) To prevail, withstand (that noun) ;
thul	 verb-pres 	thul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To restrain, tame, curb, check ; To be made suitable for an action, to become soft ;
thul	 verb-past 	thul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To restrain, tame, curb, check ; To be made suitable for an action, to become soft ;
thul	 verb-fut 	thul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To restrain, tame, curb, check ; To be made suitable for an action, to become soft ;
the	 verb-pres 	the	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To belong, appertain to. 2. To occupy oneself with a thing, to meddle with, interfere. 3. To pertain to, be applied to, to be of use ; To cause to involve, to cause to interfere ; To be included in, belong to, to come together, be together ; To be included in, to belong to, be placed in ;
thes	 verb-past 	the	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To belong, appertain to. 2. To occupy oneself with a thing, to meddle with, interfere. 3. To pertain to, be applied to, to be of use ; To cause to involve, to cause to interfere ; To be included in, belong to, to come together, be together ; To be included in, to belong to, be placed in ;
the	 verb-fut 	the	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To belong, appertain to. 2. To occupy oneself with a thing, to meddle with, interfere. 3. To pertain to, be applied to, to be of use ; To cause to involve, to cause to interfere ; To be included in, belong to, to come together, be together ; To be included in, to belong to, be placed in ;
theg	 verb-pres 	theg	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To support. 2. To lift, raise, hold up. 3. To endure, to be able to carry ; 1. To bear, endure. 2. To lift. 3. To have a trip. 4. To be floated ; To withstand, endure ; To endure, to withstand, to carry, bear ;
thegs	 verb-past 	theg	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To support. 2. To lift, raise, hold up. 3. To endure, to be able to carry ; 1. To bear, endure. 2. To lift. 3. To have a trip. 4. To be floated ; To withstand, endure ; To endure, to withstand, to carry, bear ;
theg	 verb-fut 	theg	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To support. 2. To lift, raise, hold up. 3. To endure, to be able to carry ; 1. To bear, endure. 2. To lift. 3. To have a trip. 4. To be floated ; To withstand, endure ; To endure, to withstand, to carry, bear ;
'thegs	 verb-pres 	theg	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To prepare for a journey, to pack up. 2. To depart ; To have a trip ; To leave to, to depart for ; (honorific) To go ;  To go ;
thegs	 verb-past 	theg	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To prepare for a journey, to pack up. 2. To depart ; To have a trip ; To leave to, to depart for ; (honorific) To go ;  To go ;
theg	 verb-fut 	theg	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To prepare for a journey, to pack up. 2. To depart ; To have a trip ; To leave to, to depart for ; (honorific) To go ;  To go ;
theng	 verb-pres 	theng	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To reach, complete, arrive at, pass (of a certain number or period of time) ;
thengs	 verb-past 	theng	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To reach, complete, arrive at, pass (of a certain number or period of time) ;
theng	 verb-fut 	theng	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To reach, complete, arrive at, pass (of a certain number or period of time) ;
thed	 verb-pres 	thed	Intransitive:    To rip, tear (of wool &c.) ;
thed	 verb-past 	thed	Intransitive:    To rip, tear (of wool &c.) ;
thed	 verb-fut 	thed	Intransitive:    To rip, tear (of wool &c.) ;
then	 verb-pres 	then	Intransitive:    To love, be affectionate, friendly ;
then	 verb-past 	then	Intransitive:    To love, be affectionate, friendly ;
then	 verb-fut 	then	Intransitive:    To love, be affectionate, friendly ;
thebs	 verb-pres 	thebs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To reach, arrive at. 2. To collect, assemble. 3. To be taken, be captured, to fall into. 4. To adjust, fit, cause to fit, make appropriate, make suitable ; 1. To be thrown, overthrown, seized by or with. 2. To be opened out, spread about. 3. (Sometimes used as an active verb instead of ; 1. To be fallen in the hand of or in traps. 2. To fall sick. 3. To be accurate or required answers [sic.]. 4.  To be hit at marks [sic] ; To be struck by, contaminated, despoiled, to catch (a disease) ;  To reach, meet with, be struck by ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note"]}
thebs	 verb-past 	thebs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To reach, arrive at. 2. To collect, assemble. 3. To be taken, be captured, to fall into. 4. To adjust, fit, cause to fit, make appropriate, make suitable ; 1. To be thrown, overthrown, seized by or with. 2. To be opened out, spread about. 3. (Sometimes used as an active verb instead of ; 1. To be fallen in the hand of or in traps. 2. To fall sick. 3. To be accurate or required answers [sic.]. 4.  To be hit at marks [sic] ; To be struck by, contaminated, despoiled, to catch (a disease) ;  To reach, meet with, be struck by ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note"]}
thebs	 verb-fut 	thebs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To reach, arrive at. 2. To collect, assemble. 3. To be taken, be captured, to fall into. 4. To adjust, fit, cause to fit, make appropriate, make suitable ; 1. To be thrown, overthrown, seized by or with. 2. To be opened out, spread about. 3. (Sometimes used as an active verb instead of ; 1. To be fallen in the hand of or in traps. 2. To fall sick. 3. To be accurate or required answers [sic.]. 4.  To be hit at marks [sic] ; To be struck by, contaminated, despoiled, to catch (a disease) ;  To reach, meet with, be struck by ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note"]}
thems	 verb-pres 	thems	Intransitive:    To get, obtain ;
thems	 verb-past 	thems	Intransitive:    To get, obtain ;
thems	 verb-fut 	thems	Intransitive:    To get, obtain ;
thogs	 verb-pres 	thogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To strike, stumble, run against, to throw against, to be impeded, delayed ; To be struck, blocked ; 1 To meet an obstacle. 2. To take the hand, bind the body. 3. To exist, be present, become, be produced. 4. To be fond of, love, be friendly toward. 5. To block, impede, prevent ; 1. To be delayed, made late. 2. To meet an obstacle. 3. To appear, be present, become, be produced ;
thogs	 verb-past 	thogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To strike, stumble, run against, to throw against, to be impeded, delayed ; To be struck, blocked ; 1 To meet an obstacle. 2. To take the hand, bind the body. 3. To exist, be present, become, be produced. 4. To be fond of, love, be friendly toward. 5. To block, impede, prevent ; 1. To be delayed, made late. 2. To meet an obstacle. 3. To appear, be present, become, be produced ;
thogs	 verb-fut 	thogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To strike, stumble, run against, to throw against, to be impeded, delayed ; To be struck, blocked ; 1 To meet an obstacle. 2. To take the hand, bind the body. 3. To exist, be present, become, be produced. 4. To be fond of, love, be friendly toward. 5. To block, impede, prevent ; 1. To be delayed, made late. 2. To meet an obstacle. 3. To appear, be present, become, be produced ;
thogs	 verb-pres 	thogs	Transitive: Voluntary:   To bear aloft ; 1. To take, bear away, carry. 2. To receive. 4. To name, to call ; To hold in ones hand ; To carry, take ;
'thogs	 verb-past 	thogs	Transitive: Voluntary:   To bear aloft ; 1. To take, bear away, carry. 2. To receive. 4. To name, to call ; To hold in ones hand ; To carry, take ;
thog	 verb-fut 	thogs	Transitive: Voluntary:   To bear aloft ; 1. To take, bear away, carry. 2. To receive. 4. To name, to call ; To hold in ones hand ; To carry, take ;
thong	 verb-pres 	thong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (An intransitive verb similar in meaning to ; To be given ;
thong	 verb-past 	thong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (An intransitive verb similar in meaning to ; To be given ;
thong	 verb-fut 	thong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (An intransitive verb similar in meaning to ; To be given ;
thos	 verb-pres 	thos	Transitive:  Involuntary:   1. To hear. (originally had the sense of hearing at second hand, thus -) 2. To hear of, to have word of, to understand ; To hear, to listen ; To perceive sound with the ear ; To listen, understand with the ears ;
thos	 verb-past 	thos	Transitive:  Involuntary:   1. To hear. (originally had the sense of hearing at second hand, thus -) 2. To hear of, to have word of, to understand ; To hear, to listen ; To perceive sound with the ear ; To listen, understand with the ears ;
thos	 verb-fut 	thos	Transitive:  Involuntary:   1. To hear. (originally had the sense of hearing at second hand, thus -) 2. To hear of, to have word of, to understand ; To hear, to listen ; To perceive sound with the ear ; To listen, understand with the ears ;
mthug	 verb-pres 	mthug	 Involuntary:   A verbal use of the adjective ;
mthug	 verb-past 	mthug	 Involuntary:   A verbal use of the adjective ;
	 verb-fut 	mthug	 Involuntary:   A verbal use of the adjective ;
mthud	 verb-pres 	mthud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To add on, make longer, piece on, prolong ; To join, add on, continue, carry on, be carried ; 1. To connect the ends (of something). 2. To make a distance shorter ; To connect, link, join ;
mthud	 verb-past 	mthud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To add on, make longer, piece on, prolong ; To join, add on, continue, carry on, be carried ; 1. To connect the ends (of something). 2. To make a distance shorter ; To connect, link, join ;
mthud	 verb-fut 	mthud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To add on, make longer, piece on, prolong ; To join, add on, continue, carry on, be carried ; 1. To connect the ends (of something). 2. To make a distance shorter ; To connect, link, join ;
mthun	 verb-pres 	mthun	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To agree with, to be accordant, to be on par with ; To agree, to be in agreement, to become similar ; 1. To be alike, similar. 2. To agree. 3. To be alright, be harmonious. 4. To help, assist, give aid ; To be friendly, harmonious ;
mthun(d)	 verb-past 	mthun	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To agree with, to be accordant, to be on par with ; To agree, to be in agreement, to become similar ; 1. To be alike, similar. 2. To agree. 3. To be alright, be harmonious. 4. To help, assist, give aid ; To be friendly, harmonious ;
mthun	 verb-fut 	mthun	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To agree with, to be accordant, to be on par with ; To agree, to be in agreement, to become similar ; 1. To be alike, similar. 2. To agree. 3. To be alright, be harmonious. 4. To help, assist, give aid ; To be friendly, harmonious ;
mtho	 verb-pres 	mtho	 Involuntary:  To be high (Jä) ;
mtho	 verb-past 	mtho	 Involuntary:  To be high (Jä) ;
mtho	 verb-fut 	mtho	 Involuntary:  To be high (Jä) ;
mthong	 verb-pres 	mthong	Transitive:  Involuntary:   1. To see, view. 2. To witness, observe (mentally). 3. (colloquial) To experience, endure ; 1. To see. 2. To comprehend ; 1. To see, know with the eyes. 2. To experience ; To see, know, appear ;
mthong	 verb-past 	mthong	Transitive:  Involuntary:   1. To see, view. 2. To witness, observe (mentally). 3. (colloquial) To experience, endure ; 1. To see. 2. To comprehend ; 1. To see, know with the eyes. 2. To experience ; To see, know, appear ;
mthong	 verb-fut 	mthong	Transitive:  Involuntary:   1. To see, view. 2. To witness, observe (mentally). 3. (colloquial) To experience, endure ; 1. To see. 2. To comprehend ; 1. To see, know with the eyes. 2. To experience ; To see, know, appear ;
mthol	 verb-pres 	mthol	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To confess ; To reveal, come outward, confess ; To tell ones faults openly ; 1. To announce, proclaim, speak not secretly. 2. To speak openly about faults ;
mthol(d)	 verb-past 	mthol	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To confess ; To reveal, come outward, confess ; To tell ones faults openly ; 1. To announce, proclaim, speak not secretly. 2. To speak openly about faults ;
mthol	 verb-fut 	mthol	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To confess ; To reveal, come outward, confess ; To tell ones faults openly ; 1. To announce, proclaim, speak not secretly. 2. To speak openly about faults ;
'thag	 verb-pres 	'thag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To grind, crush. 2. To weave ; To weave, grind ; To produce cotton cloth, silk cloth, woolen cloth &c. from threads of wool, flax, cotton, silk, &c ; 1. To destroy. 2. To make fine. 3. To weave cotton &c. ; To attach ;
btags	 verb-past 	'thag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To grind, crush. 2. To weave ; To weave, grind ; To produce cotton cloth, silk cloth, woolen cloth &c. from threads of wool, flax, cotton, silk, &c ; 1. To destroy. 2. To make fine. 3. To weave cotton &c. ; To attach ;
btag	 verb-fut 	'thag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To grind, crush. 2. To weave ; To weave, grind ; To produce cotton cloth, silk cloth, woolen cloth &c. from threads of wool, flax, cotton, silk, &c ; 1. To destroy. 2. To make fine. 3. To weave cotton &c. ; To attach ;
'thag	 verb-pres 	'thag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To reduce by boiling ; To dry up, dry out ;
'thag	 verb-past 	'thag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To reduce by boiling ; To dry up, dry out ;
'thag	 verb-fut 	'thag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To reduce by boiling ; To dry up, dry out ;
'thad	 verb-pres 	'thad	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be delightful, pleasant, agreeable, well pleasing. 2. (not governing a case) To please, to be acceptable, to be considered as good, to be (generally) admitted ; To be delightful, to be pleasant, agreeable ; 1. To come to a unanimous decision. 2. To want, desire. 3. To be alright, suitable. 4. To be in harmony, to accord ; To be alright, suitable, allowed. 2. To want, desire, like, enjoy ;
'thad	 verb-past 	'thad	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be delightful, pleasant, agreeable, well pleasing. 2. (not governing a case) To please, to be acceptable, to be considered as good, to be (generally) admitted ; To be delightful, to be pleasant, agreeable ; 1. To come to a unanimous decision. 2. To want, desire. 3. To be alright, suitable. 4. To be in harmony, to accord ; To be alright, suitable, allowed. 2. To want, desire, like, enjoy ;
'thad	 verb-fut 	'thad	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be delightful, pleasant, agreeable, well pleasing. 2. (not governing a case) To please, to be acceptable, to be considered as good, to be (generally) admitted ; To be delightful, to be pleasant, agreeable ; 1. To come to a unanimous decision. 2. To want, desire. 3. To be alright, suitable. 4. To be in harmony, to accord ; To be alright, suitable, allowed. 2. To want, desire, like, enjoy ;
'thab	 verb-pres 	'thab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fight, quarrel, dispute, brawl ; To fight, struggle ; 1. To brawl, fight, argue. 2. To strive, exert ; 1. To fight. 2. To balance a budget ;
'thab	 verb-past 	'thab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fight, quarrel, dispute, brawl ; To fight, struggle ; 1. To brawl, fight, argue. 2. To strive, exert ; 1. To fight. 2. To balance a budget ;
'thab	 verb-fut 	'thab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fight, quarrel, dispute, brawl ; To fight, struggle ; 1. To brawl, fight, argue. 2. To strive, exert ; 1. To fight. 2. To balance a budget ;
'tham	 verb-pres 	'tham	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To seize, to lay hold of, to clutch, to attach oneself to, to realize mentally. 2. To join together, enlock ;  1. To grasp, hold tightly. 2. To shut, close ; 1. To hug, embrace. 2. To grasp tightly with the hand. 3. To close tightly, not to open once closed ; Compare 'thems
'thams	 verb-past 	'tham	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To seize, to lay hold of, to clutch, to attach oneself to, to realize mentally. 2. To join together, enlock ;  1. To grasp, hold tightly. 2. To shut, close ; 1. To hug, embrace. 2. To grasp tightly with the hand. 3. To close tightly, not to open once closed ; Compare 'thems
'tham	 verb-fut 	'tham	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To seize, to lay hold of, to clutch, to attach oneself to, to realize mentally. 2. To join together, enlock ;  1. To grasp, hold tightly. 2. To shut, close ; 1. To hug, embrace. 2. To grasp tightly with the hand. 3. To close tightly, not to open once closed ; Compare 'thems
'thams	 verb-pres 	'thams	   (archaic) 1. To love, be kind. 2. To not finish, conclude. 3. To blame, scold ;
	 verb-past 	'thams	   (archaic) 1. To love, be kind. 2. To not finish, conclude. 3. To blame, scold ;
	 verb-fut 	'thams	   (archaic) 1. To love, be kind. 2. To not finish, conclude. 3. To blame, scold ;
'thas	 verb-pres 	'thas	   Probably a verbal use of the adjective ;
'thas	 verb-past 	'thas	   Probably a verbal use of the adjective ;
	 verb-fut 	'thas	   Probably a verbal use of the adjective ;
'thig	 verb-pres 	'thig	Transitive:    To cause to fall in drops, to distill (Jä) ;
btigs	 verb-past 	'thig	Transitive:    To cause to fall in drops, to distill (Jä) ;
btig	 verb-fut 	'thig	Transitive:    To cause to fall in drops, to distill (Jä) ;
'thig	 verb-pres 	'thig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:    To fall in drops, to drip from ; To leak through ; (for droplets of water) To fall down ; Compare thigs
'thigs	 verb-past 	'thig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:    To fall in drops, to drip from ; To leak through ; (for droplets of water) To fall down ; Compare thigs
'thig	 verb-fut 	'thig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:    To fall in drops, to drip from ; To leak through ; (for droplets of water) To fall down ; Compare thigs
'thib	 verb-pres 	'thib	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be covered, darkened ; To be cloudy, gloomy ; To thicken, roll in (of clouds and smoke) ; To thicken, obscure ;
'thibs	 verb-past 	'thib	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be covered, darkened ; To be cloudy, gloomy ; To thicken, roll in (of clouds and smoke) ; To thicken, obscure ;
'thib	 verb-fut 	'thib	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be covered, darkened ; To be cloudy, gloomy ; To thicken, roll in (of clouds and smoke) ; To thicken, obscure ;
thim	 verb-pres 	'thim	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (with ; To merge into ; To mix into an un-differentiable essence ; To sink, dissolve, vanish ;
thim	 verb-past 	'thim	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (with ; To merge into ; To mix into an un-differentiable essence ; To sink, dissolve, vanish ;
'thim	 verb-fut 	'thim	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (with ; To merge into ; To mix into an un-differentiable essence ; To sink, dissolve, vanish ;
'thu	 verb-pres 	'thu	Transitive: Voluntary:   To gather, collect, pick up ; To collect, pick up, to collect wood for fuel ; To gather collect ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC"]}
'thus	 verb-past 	'thu	Transitive: Voluntary:   To gather, collect, pick up ; To collect, pick up, to collect wood for fuel ; To gather collect ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC"]}
'thu	 verb-fut 	'thu	Transitive: Voluntary:   To gather, collect, pick up ; To collect, pick up, to collect wood for fuel ; To gather collect ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC"]}
'thu	 verb-pres 	'thu	   To be included ;
'thus	 verb-past 	'thu	   To be included ;
gdu	 verb-fut 	'thu	   To be included ;
sdus	 verb-pres 	'thu	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To gather, collect, pick up ; To group, to collect, to pick up ; To bring together in one place a thing laying in pieces ; 1. To gather, collect. 2. To gather, assemble ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC"]}
btus	 verb-past 	'thu	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To gather, collect, pick up ; To group, to collect, to pick up ; To bring together in one place a thing laying in pieces ; 1. To gather, collect. 2. To gather, assemble ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC"]}
btu	 verb-fut 	'thu	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To gather, collect, pick up ; To group, to collect, to pick up ; To bring together in one place a thing laying in pieces ; 1. To gather, collect. 2. To gather, assemble ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC"]}
'thung	 verb-pres 	'thung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To drink, to imbibe fluid ; To drink ; To imbibe liquid in the mouth ; [To drink] ;
'thungs	 verb-past 	'thung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To drink, to imbibe fluid ; To drink ; To imbibe liquid in the mouth ; [To drink] ;
btung	 verb-fut 	'thung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To drink, to imbibe fluid ; To drink ; To imbibe liquid in the mouth ; [To drink] ;
'thub	 verb-pres 	'thub	 Voluntary:   To cut into pieces, to split ; To hew, chop, cut to pieces ; Compare gtub
btubs	 verb-past 	'thub	 Voluntary:   To cut into pieces, to split ; To hew, chop, cut to pieces ; Compare gtub
gtub	 verb-fut 	'thub	 Voluntary:   To cut into pieces, to split ; To hew, chop, cut to pieces ; Compare gtub
'thum	 verb-pres 	'thum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To cover, lay over, put over, wrap up, envelop ; To be covered ; To be cognitively unclear ; 1. To have difficulty breathing. 2. To be mentally unclear ;
'thums	 verb-past 	'thum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To cover, lay over, put over, wrap up, envelop ; To be covered ; To be cognitively unclear ; 1. To have difficulty breathing. 2. To be mentally unclear ;
'thum	 verb-fut 	'thum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To cover, lay over, put over, wrap up, envelop ; To be covered ; To be cognitively unclear ; 1. To have difficulty breathing. 2. To be mentally unclear ;
gtum	 verb-pres 	'thum	Transitive: Voluntary:   To wrap round, wrap up, envelope, veil, cover ; To cover, lay over, put over, coat, wrap up, envelop ; To warp in, to cover ;  1. To put a cover on the outside of something. 2. To be similar to covering with an outer cover (e.g. a mountaintop with mist) ; To wrap, wrap up ;
gtums	 verb-past 	'thum	Transitive: Voluntary:   To wrap round, wrap up, envelope, veil, cover ; To cover, lay over, put over, coat, wrap up, envelop ; To warp in, to cover ;  1. To put a cover on the outside of something. 2. To be similar to covering with an outer cover (e.g. a mountaintop with mist) ; To wrap, wrap up ;
gtum	 verb-fut 	'thum	Transitive: Voluntary:   To wrap round, wrap up, envelope, veil, cover ; To cover, lay over, put over, coat, wrap up, envelop ; To warp in, to cover ;  1. To put a cover on the outside of something. 2. To be similar to covering with an outer cover (e.g. a mountaintop with mist) ; To wrap, wrap up ;
'thul	 verb-pres 	'thul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To raise, to spread, to smell of ; 1. To be fumigated. 2. To be tamed ; Once tamed, to act appropriately ; To emerge, arise, occur (of smoke or smell) ; Compare gtul
btul(d)	 verb-past 	'thul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To raise, to spread, to smell of ; 1. To be fumigated. 2. To be tamed ; Once tamed, to act appropriately ; To emerge, arise, occur (of smoke or smell) ; Compare gtul
gtul	 verb-fut 	'thul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To raise, to spread, to smell of ; 1. To be fumigated. 2. To be tamed ; Once tamed, to act appropriately ; To emerge, arise, occur (of smoke or smell) ; Compare gtul
'thus	 verb-pres 	'thus	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be permissible, to be right ; To be capable, able, sufficient, effective ; To be able permissible, all right ;
'thus	 verb-past 	'thus	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be permissible, to be right ; To be capable, able, sufficient, effective ; To be able permissible, all right ;
'thus	 verb-fut 	'thus	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be permissible, to be right ; To be capable, able, sufficient, effective ; To be able permissible, all right ;
'theng	 verb-pres 	'theng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be lame, to go lame ; For feet and hands to go lame ; To be crippled, to be lame ;
'theng	 verb-past 	'theng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be lame, to go lame ; For feet and hands to go lame ; To be crippled, to be lame ;
'theng	 verb-fut 	'theng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be lame, to go lame ; For feet and hands to go lame ; To be crippled, to be lame ;
'then	 verb-pres 	'then	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To draw, to pull. 2. To stop, to stop short, to halt (Jä). 3. (in West) To lean, recline upon ; To pull, draw, delay, reduce, derogate ; 1. To inhale. 2. To take, take out. 3. To pull, to drag. ; 4. To fall in rank. 5. To collect, draw together. 6. To recite, sing ; To pull, draw, lead. 2. To asses taxes. 3. To take longer, to prolong. 4. To inhale ;
'then	 verb-past 	'then	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To draw, to pull. 2. To stop, to stop short, to halt (Jä). 3. (in West) To lean, recline upon ; To pull, draw, delay, reduce, derogate ; 1. To inhale. 2. To take, take out. 3. To pull, to drag. ; 4. To fall in rank. 5. To collect, draw together. 6. To recite, sing ; To pull, draw, lead. 2. To asses taxes. 3. To take longer, to prolong. 4. To inhale ;
'then	 verb-fut 	'then	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To draw, to pull. 2. To stop, to stop short, to halt (Jä). 3. (in West) To lean, recline upon ; To pull, draw, delay, reduce, derogate ; 1. To inhale. 2. To take, take out. 3. To pull, to drag. ; 4. To fall in rank. 5. To collect, draw together. 6. To recite, sing ; To pull, draw, lead. 2. To asses taxes. 3. To take longer, to prolong. 4. To inhale ;
'thems	 verb-pres 	'thems	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To shut in, comprise, cover, include. 2. To suffice ; 1. To be full, complete. 2. (in West) To be sufficient, enough (Jä) ; To be completed, to be filled, to be careful ; To be tight, compact (of flesh and bone &c.) ; To be complete ; Compare 'tham
them	 verb-past 	'thems	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To shut in, comprise, cover, include. 2. To suffice ; 1. To be full, complete. 2. (in West) To be sufficient, enough (Jä) ; To be completed, to be filled, to be careful ; To be tight, compact (of flesh and bone &c.) ; To be complete ; Compare 'tham
'them	 verb-fut 	'thems	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To shut in, comprise, cover, include. 2. To suffice ; 1. To be full, complete. 2. (in West) To be sufficient, enough (Jä) ; To be completed, to be filled, to be careful ; To be tight, compact (of flesh and bone &c.) ; To be complete ; Compare 'tham
'thog	 verb-pres 	'thog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To pick, pluck (a fruit, flower &c.). 2. To depilate. 3. To peck (with the beak of a bird) ; To cut, remove with the hand, to pluck, pick ; Compare the syllable tog
btogs	 verb-past 	'thog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To pick, pluck (a fruit, flower &c.). 2. To depilate. 3. To peck (with the beak of a bird) ; To cut, remove with the hand, to pluck, pick ; Compare the syllable tog
btog	 verb-fut 	'thog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To pick, pluck (a fruit, flower &c.). 2. To depilate. 3. To peck (with the beak of a bird) ; To cut, remove with the hand, to pluck, pick ; Compare the syllable tog
'thon	 verb-pres 	'thon	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To go out, come forth. 2. (in West, colloquial) To come, to arise. 3. To occur (Jä) ; To go out, to come forth ; 1. To come out from within. 2. To arrive. 3. To achieve, success ;
thon(d)	 verb-past 	'thon	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To go out, come forth. 2. (in West, colloquial) To come, to arise. 3. To occur (Jä) ; To go out, to come forth ; 1. To come out from within. 2. To arrive. 3. To achieve, success ;
thon	 verb-fut 	'thon	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To go out, come forth. 2. (in West, colloquial) To come, to arise. 3. To occur (Jä) ; To go out, to come forth ; 1. To come out from within. 2. To arrive. 3. To achieve, success ;
'thon	 verb-pres 	'thon	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To depart. 2. (in West, colloquial) To come, to arise. 3. To occur (Jä) ;  1. To arrive. 3. To achieve, success ; 1. To go. 2. To appear, arise. 3. To dawn, rise. 4. To arrive ;
thon	 verb-past 	'thon	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To depart. 2. (in West, colloquial) To come, to arise. 3. To occur (Jä) ;  1. To arrive. 3. To achieve, success ; 1. To go. 2. To appear, arise. 3. To dawn, rise. 4. To arrive ;
'thon	 verb-fut 	'thon	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To depart. 2. (in West, colloquial) To come, to arise. 3. To occur (Jä) ;  1. To arrive. 3. To achieve, success ; 1. To go. 2. To appear, arise. 3. To dawn, rise. 4. To arrive ;
'thob	 verb-pres 	'thob	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To find, get, obtain (especially in West and Sikkim unacceptable in classical). 2. To get, obtain, procure, receive (in classical). 3. To become ; To obtain, get ; 1. To come in hand. 2. To take, seize. 3. To be worthy, suitable, conform to, comply with ; To find ;
thob	 verb-past 	'thob	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To find, get, obtain (especially in West and Sikkim unacceptable in classical). 2. To get, obtain, procure, receive (in classical). 3. To become ; To obtain, get ; 1. To come in hand. 2. To take, seize. 3. To be worthy, suitable, conform to, comply with ; To find ;
thob	 verb-fut 	'thob	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To find, get, obtain (especially in West and Sikkim unacceptable in classical). 2. To get, obtain, procure, receive (in classical). 3. To become ; To obtain, get ; 1. To come in hand. 2. To take, seize. 3. To be worthy, suitable, conform to, comply with ; To find ;
'thom	 verb-pres 	'thom	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be confused, puzzled, to grope, to be stunned. 2. (in West) To doze, slumber (Jä) ; To be bewildered, be confused, to be puzzled ; To be confused, ignorant concerning things ; To be confused ;
'thoms	 verb-past 	'thom	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be confused, puzzled, to grope, to be stunned. 2. (in West) To doze, slumber (Jä) ; To be bewildered, be confused, to be puzzled ; To be confused, ignorant concerning things ; To be confused ;
'thom	 verb-fut 	'thom	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be confused, puzzled, to grope, to be stunned. 2. (in West) To doze, slumber (Jä) ; To be bewildered, be confused, to be puzzled ; To be confused, ignorant concerning things ; To be confused ;
'thor(d)	 verb-pres 	'thor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To be strewn, scattered. 2. To be dispersed, desiccated, burst (of a gun) ; 1 To scatter, strew, spread over (MoÑ). 2. To cast, throw, throw out ; To spread over, strew, scatter ; To spread out, separate individually. 2. To throw to the ground ; To scatter, throw in small bits. 2. To tear apart, destroy ; Compare stor
thor(d)	 verb-past 	'thor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To be strewn, scattered. 2. To be dispersed, desiccated, burst (of a gun) ; 1 To scatter, strew, spread over (MoÑ). 2. To cast, throw, throw out ; To spread over, strew, scatter ; To spread out, separate individually. 2. To throw to the ground ; To scatter, throw in small bits. 2. To tear apart, destroy ; Compare stor
gtor	 verb-fut 	'thor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To be strewn, scattered. 2. To be dispersed, desiccated, burst (of a gun) ; 1 To scatter, strew, spread over (MoÑ). 2. To cast, throw, throw out ; To spread over, strew, scatter ; To spread out, separate individually. 2. To throw to the ground ; To scatter, throw in small bits. 2. To tear apart, destroy ; Compare stor
'thor	 verb-pres 	'thor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be separated, scattered ; 1. To be individually separated. 2. For something to fall down ; To fragment, become pieces, go in sundry directions ; Compare stor
thor	 verb-past 	'thor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be separated, scattered ; 1. To be individually separated. 2. For something to fall down ; To fragment, become pieces, go in sundry directions ; Compare stor
'thor	 verb-fut 	'thor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be separated, scattered ; 1. To be individually separated. 2. For something to fall down ; To fragment, become pieces, go in sundry directions ; Compare stor
dwangs	 verb-pres 	dwangs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be clear, to become clear, to awake to ; To get rid of (filth, darkness &c.) ; To clean, clear away ; To heal, recover ;
dwangs	 verb-past 	dwangs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be clear, to become clear, to awake to ; To get rid of (filth, darkness &c.) ; To clean, clear away ; To heal, recover ;
dwangs	 verb-fut 	dwangs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be clear, to become clear, to awake to ; To get rid of (filth, darkness &c.) ; To clean, clear away ; To heal, recover ;
dad	 verb-pres 	dad	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To believe, to have faith ; To have faith, to have interest in, to long for ; For earnest desire or delight to arise ; 1. To believe faithfully. 2. To be happy, to love, be fond of, to crave ; (Jä) suggests a relationship with 'dod
dad	 verb-past 	dad	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To believe, to have faith ; To have faith, to have interest in, to long for ; For earnest desire or delight to arise ; 1. To believe faithfully. 2. To be happy, to love, be fond of, to crave ; (Jä) suggests a relationship with 'dod
dad	 verb-fut 	dad	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To believe, to have faith ; To have faith, to have interest in, to long for ; For earnest desire or delight to arise ; 1. To believe faithfully. 2. To be happy, to love, be fond of, to crave ; (Jä) suggests a relationship with 'dod
dar	 verb-pres 	dar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be diffused, grown up, to spread ; To become popular, to become common, to spread out, to be increased ; 1. To grow, increase upward. 2. To have a good coat, a good sheen, to grow fat, to put on flesh (for animals) ; To grow, make larger ;
dar	 verb-past 	dar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be diffused, grown up, to spread ; To become popular, to become common, to spread out, to be increased ; 1. To grow, increase upward. 2. To have a good coat, a good sheen, to grow fat, to put on flesh (for animals) ; To grow, make larger ;
dar	 verb-fut 	dar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be diffused, grown up, to spread ; To become popular, to become common, to spread out, to be increased ; 1. To grow, increase upward. 2. To have a good coat, a good sheen, to grow fat, to put on flesh (for animals) ; To grow, make larger ;
dugs	 verb-pres 	dugs	Transitive:    1. To make warm, to warm. 2. To light, to kindle (Jä) ; To alternate between hot and cold things on the body in order to cure some diseases ;
dugs	 verb-past 	dugs	Transitive:    1. To make warm, to warm. 2. To light, to kindle (Jä) ; To alternate between hot and cold things on the body in order to cure some diseases ;
dugs	 verb-fut 	dugs	Transitive:    1. To make warm, to warm. 2. To light, to kindle (Jä) ; To alternate between hot and cold things on the body in order to cure some diseases ;
dung	 verb-pres 	dung	Intransitive:    To become clear, clean ;
dung	 verb-past 	dung	Intransitive:    To become clear, clean ;
dung	 verb-fut 	dung	Intransitive:    To become clear, clean ;
dungs	 verb-pres 	dungs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To love, be fond of ; To cling to, carve, desire ;
gdungs	 verb-past 	dungs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To love, be fond of ; To cling to, carve, desire ;
gdung	 verb-fut 	dungs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To love, be fond of ; To cling to, carve, desire ;
dud	 verb-pres 	dud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To stoop, to bend ; To hang down, to bend down, to be suspended from ; To bend down ;
dud	 verb-past 	dud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To stoop, to bend ; To hang down, to bend down, to be suspended from ; To bend down ;
'dud	 verb-fut 	dud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To stoop, to bend ; To hang down, to bend down, to be suspended from ; To bend down ;
dud	 verb-pres 	dud	   To tie, to knit ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Stein 1942: 205)"]}
	 verb-past 	dud	   To tie, to knit ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Stein 1942: 205)"]}
	 verb-fut 	dud	   To tie, to knit ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Stein 1942: 205)"]}
dub	 verb-pres 	dub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be fatigued, to be tired ; To be warn out, tired (in body, mind) ;
dub	 verb-past 	dub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be fatigued, to be tired ; To be warn out, tired (in body, mind) ;
dub	 verb-fut 	dub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be fatigued, to be tired ; To be warn out, tired (in body, mind) ;
dur	 verb-pres 	dur	   To dispose of the dead, to keep a dead body ; To keep a dead body, to bury, to eat ;
dur(d)	 verb-past 	dur	   To dispose of the dead, to keep a dead body ; To keep a dead body, to bury, to eat ;
dur	 verb-fut 	dur	   To dispose of the dead, to keep a dead body ; To keep a dead body, to bury, to eat ;
dul	 verb-pres 	dul	 Involuntary:  To become peaceful, to be tamed, make peaceful minded, to sober ;
dul(d)	 verb-past 	dul	 Involuntary:  To become peaceful, to be tamed, make peaceful minded, to sober ;
dul	 verb-fut 	dul	 Involuntary:  To become peaceful, to be tamed, make peaceful minded, to sober ;
ded	 verb-pres 	ded	Transitive:    To travel towards a goal, after looking at a path, road marker ;
ded	 verb-past 	ded	Transitive:    To travel towards a goal, after looking at a path, road marker ;
ded	 verb-fut 	ded	Transitive:    To travel towards a goal, after looking at a path, road marker ;
do	 verb-pres 	do	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be able ;
do	 verb-past 	do	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be able ;
do	 verb-fut 	do	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be able ;
dogs	 verb-pres 	dogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fear, dread, apprehend ; To doubt, to be uncertain, to be afraid of ; To examine, avoid ; To doubt ;
dwogs	 verb-past 	dogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fear, dread, apprehend ; To doubt, to be uncertain, to be afraid of ; To examine, avoid ; To doubt ;
dwogs	 verb-fut 	dogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fear, dread, apprehend ; To doubt, to be uncertain, to be afraid of ; To examine, avoid ; To doubt ;
dod	 verb-pres 	dod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (often with ; To jut out ; To stick out (like a form, design) ;
dod	 verb-past 	dod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (often with ; To jut out ; To stick out (like a form, design) ;
dod	 verb-fut 	dod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   (often with ; To jut out ; To stick out (like a form, design) ;
don	 verb-pres 	don	 Voluntary:   To come out ; To leave, depart ;1. To get out, be away from, cross (a river). 2. To pretend. 3. To play (a role);
don(d)	 verb-past 	don	 Voluntary:   To come out ; To leave, depart ;1. To get out, be away from, cross (a river). 2. To pretend. 3. To play (a role);
don	 verb-fut 	don	 Voluntary:   To come out ; To leave, depart ;1. To get out, be away from, cross (a river). 2. To pretend. 3. To play (a role);
don	 verb-pres 	don	 Involuntary:   1. To come out, emerge. 2. To have a boil. 3. To excrete, perspire, transpire. 4. To reach a state, condition, be destroyed, found. 5. To be published. 6. To get elected ;
don	 verb-past 	don	 Involuntary:   1. To come out, emerge. 2. To have a boil. 3. To excrete, perspire, transpire. 4. To reach a state, condition, be destroyed, found. 5. To be published. 6. To get elected ;
	 verb-fut 	don	 Involuntary:   1. To come out, emerge. 2. To have a boil. 3. To excrete, perspire, transpire. 4. To reach a state, condition, be destroyed, found. 5. To be published. 6. To get elected ;
drag	 verb-pres 	drag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To recover from illness, to become better ; 1. To recover from illness. 2. (dialect) To be without harm, without defect ; To be clear of illness ;
drags	 verb-past 	drag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To recover from illness, to become better ; 1. To recover from illness. 2. (dialect) To be without harm, without defect ; To be clear of illness ;
drag	 verb-fut 	drag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To recover from illness, to become better ; 1. To recover from illness. 2. (dialect) To be without harm, without defect ; To be clear of illness ;
	 verb-pres 	drags	  
	 verb-past 	drags	  
	 verb-fut 	drags	  
dran	 verb-pres 	dran	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To think, ponder. 2. (with ; To remember, recollect, to think of, to ponder ; 1. For an earlier affair to come to mind again. 2. For an affair to come to mind. 3. To love, be affectionate toward ; To not forget, to turn again and again in the mind ;
dran(d)	 verb-past 	dran	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To think, ponder. 2. (with ; To remember, recollect, to think of, to ponder ; 1. For an earlier affair to come to mind again. 2. For an affair to come to mind. 3. To love, be affectionate toward ; To not forget, to turn again and again in the mind ;
dran	 verb-fut 	dran	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To think, ponder. 2. (with ; To remember, recollect, to think of, to ponder ; 1. For an earlier affair to come to mind again. 2. For an affair to come to mind. 3. To love, be affectionate toward ; To not forget, to turn again and again in the mind ;
dregs	 verb-pres 	dregs	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be self-satisfied, to be haughty, to pride ; To be full, bloated ;
dregs	 verb-past 	dregs	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be self-satisfied, to be haughty, to pride ; To be full, bloated ;
dregs	 verb-fut 	dregs	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To be self-satisfied, to be haughty, to pride ; To be full, bloated ;
dred	 verb-pres 	dred	Intransitive:    To not avoid, to not be suspicious ;
dred	 verb-past 	dred	Intransitive:    To not avoid, to not be suspicious ;
dred	 verb-fut 	dred	Intransitive:    To not avoid, to not be suspicious ;
dro	 verb-pres 	dro	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be warm ; To heat up, warm because of sunlight, fire &c. ; To be hot ;
dros	 verb-past 	dro	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be warm ; To heat up, warm because of sunlight, fire &c. ; To be hot ;
dro	 verb-fut 	dro	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be warm ; To heat up, warm because of sunlight, fire &c. ; To be hot ;
gdang	 verb-pres 	gdang	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To gape, to open wide (the mouth and nostrils), to stretch ; To open widely, to open mouth [sic], to cure a disease ; For an opening to open wide ; To open ;
gdangs	 verb-past 	gdang	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To gape, to open wide (the mouth and nostrils), to stretch ; To open widely, to open mouth [sic], to cure a disease ; For an opening to open wide ; To open ;
gdang	 verb-fut 	gdang	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To gape, to open wide (the mouth and nostrils), to stretch ; To open widely, to open mouth [sic], to cure a disease ; For an opening to open wide ; To open ;
gda'	 verb-pres 	gda'	Intransitive:    (honorific) 1. To be, to be there. 2. (with terminative infinitive of another verb) Expresses possibility of being or of doing ; To stay, remain, exist ;
gda'	 verb-past 	gda'	Intransitive:    (honorific) 1. To be, to be there. 2. (with terminative infinitive of another verb) Expresses possibility of being or of doing ; To stay, remain, exist ;
gda'	 verb-fut 	gda'	Intransitive:    (honorific) 1. To be, to be there. 2. (with terminative infinitive of another verb) Expresses possibility of being or of doing ; To stay, remain, exist ;
gdal	 verb-pres 	gdal	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To spread forth, to expend ; To give away wealth, to cause to spread over, cover up ; 1. To spread out. 2. To increase area by flattening ; To spread, lay out ;
bdal(d)	 verb-past 	gdal	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To spread forth, to expend ; To give away wealth, to cause to spread over, cover up ; 1. To spread out. 2. To increase area by flattening ; To spread, lay out ;
bdal	 verb-fut 	gdal	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To spread forth, to expend ; To give away wealth, to cause to spread over, cover up ; 1. To spread out. 2. To increase area by flattening ; To spread, lay out ;
gdal	 verb-pres 	gdal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To spread, pervade ;
gdal	 verb-past 	gdal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To spread, pervade ;
gdal	 verb-fut 	gdal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To spread, pervade ;
gdas	 verb-pres 	gdas	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To speak ; To speak, request, understand ;
gdas	 verb-past 	gdas	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To speak ; To speak, request, understand ;
gdas	 verb-fut 	gdas	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To speak ; To speak, request, understand ;
gdu	 verb-pres 	gdu	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To stir up together, to mingle, mix up, to mix up drugs. 2. To covet, to hanker after ; To boil for a long time (water &c.) ; 1. To make thick by boiling. 2. (dialect) To desire, crave ;
gdus	 verb-past 	gdu	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To stir up together, to mingle, mix up, to mix up drugs. 2. To covet, to hanker after ; To boil for a long time (water &c.) ; 1. To make thick by boiling. 2. (dialect) To desire, crave ;
gdu	 verb-fut 	gdu	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To stir up together, to mingle, mix up, to mix up drugs. 2. To covet, to hanker after ; To boil for a long time (water &c.) ; 1. To make thick by boiling. 2. (dialect) To desire, crave ;
gdu	 verb-pres 	gdu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To continue in a rolling boil. 2. To very quickly move back and forth (of water) ;
gdus	 verb-past 	gdu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To continue in a rolling boil. 2. To very quickly move back and forth (of water) ;
gdu	 verb-fut 	gdu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To continue in a rolling boil. 2. To very quickly move back and forth (of water) ;
gdung	 verb-pres 	gdung	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To be pained by physical causes, to be tormented, to be scorched ; To torment, to cause to suffer, to harm ; To suffer, to produce suffering ; To suffer from pain or heat ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 84)"]}
gdungs	 verb-past 	gdung	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To be pained by physical causes, to be tormented, to be scorched ; To torment, to cause to suffer, to harm ; To suffer, to produce suffering ; To suffer from pain or heat ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 84)"]}
gdung	 verb-fut 	gdung	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To be pained by physical causes, to be tormented, to be scorched ; To torment, to cause to suffer, to harm ; To suffer, to produce suffering ; To suffer from pain or heat ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 84)"]}
gdung	 verb-pres 	gdung	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To desire, to long for ; To love, to be fond of ; To strongly wish for, desire ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 84)"]}
gdung	 verb-past 	gdung	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To desire, to long for ; To love, to be fond of ; To strongly wish for, desire ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 84)"]}
gdung	 verb-fut 	gdung	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To desire, to long for ; To love, to be fond of ; To strongly wish for, desire ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 84)"]}
gdeng	 verb-pres 	gdeng	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To raise, to lift ; To raise something for hitting, to cause a weapon [sic] ; To raise up, lift up, brandish ; To raise, preparing to strike ;
gdengs	 verb-past 	gdeng	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To raise, to lift ; To raise something for hitting, to cause a weapon [sic] ; To raise up, lift up, brandish ; To raise, preparing to strike ;
gdeng	 verb-fut 	gdeng	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To raise, to lift ; To raise something for hitting, to cause a weapon [sic] ; To raise up, lift up, brandish ; To raise, preparing to strike ;
gdon	 verb-pres 	gdon	  
gdon(d)	 verb-past 	gdon	  
gdon	 verb-fut 	gdon	  
bdag	 verb-pres 	bdag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To own, belong to, preserve ; To own, to have power over ;
bdag	 verb-past 	bdag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To own, belong to, preserve ; To own, to have power over ;
bdag	 verb-fut 	bdag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To own, belong to, preserve ; To own, to have power over ;
bdam	 verb-pres 	bdam	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To ask a superior about a secret, hidden affair, to speak to a person about a secret matter ;
bdams	 verb-past 	bdam	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To ask a superior about a secret, hidden affair, to speak to a person about a secret matter ;
bdam	 verb-fut 	bdam	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To ask a superior about a secret, hidden affair, to speak to a person about a secret matter ;
bda'	 verb-pres 	bda'	Intransitive:    To crave food ;
bda'	 verb-past 	bda'	Intransitive:    To crave food ;
bda'	 verb-fut 	bda'	Intransitive:    To crave food ;
bdar	 verb-pres 	bdar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (archaic) 1. To adjust exactly, adjust in a very accurate manner. 2. To pray earnestly (in casting lots and in divination). 3. To grind, polish, rub, file ; 1. To prove a statement by interrogating whether it is true or false. 2. To make clean by sweeping. 3. To grind ; 1. To speak words which pass judgment. 2. To arrange and then invite. 3. To plane, and sand ; 1. To arrange. 2. To [go] in front.  3. To speak. 4. To plane, file, grind finely. 5. To clean off, wipe, rub ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 75)"]}
bdar(d)	 verb-past 	bdar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (archaic) 1. To adjust exactly, adjust in a very accurate manner. 2. To pray earnestly (in casting lots and in divination). 3. To grind, polish, rub, file ; 1. To prove a statement by interrogating whether it is true or false. 2. To make clean by sweeping. 3. To grind ; 1. To speak words which pass judgment. 2. To arrange and then invite. 3. To plane, and sand ; 1. To arrange. 2. To [go] in front.  3. To speak. 4. To plane, file, grind finely. 5. To clean off, wipe, rub ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 75)"]}
bdar	 verb-fut 	bdar	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (archaic) 1. To adjust exactly, adjust in a very accurate manner. 2. To pray earnestly (in casting lots and in divination). 3. To grind, polish, rub, file ; 1. To prove a statement by interrogating whether it is true or false. 2. To make clean by sweeping. 3. To grind ; 1. To speak words which pass judgment. 2. To arrange and then invite. 3. To plane, and sand ; 1. To arrange. 2. To [go] in front.  3. To speak. 4. To plane, file, grind finely. 5. To clean off, wipe, rub ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 75)"]}
bdug	 verb-pres 	bdug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fumigate, to burn incense, to wing the censor ; To burn incense, to fumigate ; To waft, spread (smoke, smells) ; [To fumigate] ;
bdugs	 verb-past 	bdug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fumigate, to burn incense, to wing the censor ; To burn incense, to fumigate ; To waft, spread (smoke, smells) ; [To fumigate] ;
bdug	 verb-fut 	bdug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To fumigate, to burn incense, to wing the censor ; To burn incense, to fumigate ; To waft, spread (smoke, smells) ; [To fumigate] ;
bdung	 verb-pres 	bdung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To pull a bow string ; To bend down a bow with an arrow by pulling the string ; To pull a bow string ; To pull, to bend hither ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
bdungs	 verb-past 	bdung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To pull a bow string ; To bend down a bow with an arrow by pulling the string ; To pull a bow string ; To pull, to bend hither ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
bdung	 verb-fut 	bdung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To pull a bow string ; To bend down a bow with an arrow by pulling the string ; To pull a bow string ; To pull, to bend hither ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["CD"]}
bdo	 verb-pres 	bdo	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. (chiefly in reference to sin and evil) To increase, spread, diffuse. 2. (used with ; To increase, to spread widely ; To spread, fill, multiply ; To increase, spread, fill ;
bdo	 verb-past 	bdo	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. (chiefly in reference to sin and evil) To increase, spread, diffuse. 2. (used with ; To increase, to spread widely ; To spread, fill, multiply ; To increase, spread, fill ;
bdo	 verb-fut 	bdo	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. (chiefly in reference to sin and evil) To increase, spread, diffuse. 2. (used with ; To increase, to spread widely ; To spread, fill, multiply ; To increase, spread, fill ;
bdog	 verb-pres 	bdog	Intransitive:    (generally with ; To have ;
bdog	 verb-past 	bdog	Intransitive:    (generally with ; To have ;
bdog	 verb-fut 	bdog	Intransitive:    (generally with ; To have ;
bdod	 verb-pres 	bdod	  
bdod	 verb-past 	bdod	  
bdod	 verb-fut 	bdod	  
mdung	 verb-pres 	mdung	   To sting, to pierce with a spear ;
	 verb-past 	mdung	   To sting, to pierce with a spear ;
	 verb-fut 	mdung	   To sting, to pierce with a spear ;
mdud	 verb-pres 	mdud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To untie a knot ; To tie, bind ; To tie, bind ;
mdud	 verb-past 	mdud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To untie a knot ; To tie, bind ; To tie, bind ;
mdud	 verb-fut 	mdud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To untie a knot ; To tie, bind ; To tie, bind ;
'dag	 verb-pres 	'dag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To lick off ; To be clean, to become pure ; To clear away (smell, color &c.). 2. To overstep a nation's law. 3. To disappear once dead ;  To become clean ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 77)"]}
dag	 verb-past 	'dag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To lick off ; To be clean, to become pure ; To clear away (smell, color &c.). 2. To overstep a nation's law. 3. To disappear once dead ;  To become clean ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 77)"]}
dag	 verb-fut 	'dag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To lick off ; To be clean, to become pure ; To clear away (smell, color &c.). 2. To overstep a nation's law. 3. To disappear once dead ;  To become clean ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 77)"]}
'dang	 verb-pres 	'dang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be right, to suit. 2. To come to, to arrive at (Sch.) ; 1. To reach a certain measure. 2. ; To reach a certain number ;
'dangs	 verb-past 	'dang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be right, to suit. 2. To come to, to arrive at (Sch.) ; 1. To reach a certain measure. 2. ; To reach a certain number ;
'dang	 verb-fut 	'dang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be right, to suit. 2. To come to, to arrive at (Sch.) ; 1. To reach a certain measure. 2. ; To reach a certain number ;
'dad	 verb-pres 	'dad	Transitive:   {:tag :orth, :attrs nil, :content ["gshin las byed pa'i don "]};
'dad	 verb-past 	'dad	Transitive:   {:tag :orth, :attrs nil, :content ["gshin las byed pa'i don "]};
'dad	 verb-fut 	'dad	Transitive:   {:tag :orth, :attrs nil, :content ["gshin las byed pa'i don "]};
'dam	 verb-pres 	'dam	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To entrust, commit to another ;
btam	 verb-past 	'dam	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To entrust, commit to another ;
gtam	 verb-fut 	'dam	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To entrust, commit to another ;
'da'	 verb-pres 	'da'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To pass away, to go beyond, to surmount, get the better of ; 1. For time to elapse. 2. For a number to increase, to pass beyond the boundary of a group. 3. To die. 4. For a period of time to be finished. 5. To be superior in a characteristic ; 1. To pass beyond a boundary. 2. For life to finish, to die ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 77)"]}
'das	 verb-past 	'da'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To pass away, to go beyond, to surmount, get the better of ; 1. For time to elapse. 2. For a number to increase, to pass beyond the boundary of a group. 3. To die. 4. For a period of time to be finished. 5. To be superior in a characteristic ; 1. To pass beyond a boundary. 2. For life to finish, to die ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 77)"]}
'da'	 verb-fut 	'da'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To pass away, to go beyond, to surmount, get the better of ; 1. For time to elapse. 2. For a number to increase, to pass beyond the boundary of a group. 3. To die. 4. For a period of time to be finished. 5. To be superior in a characteristic ; 1. To pass beyond a boundary. 2. For life to finish, to die ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 77)"]}
'dar	 verb-pres 	'dar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To shiver, to tremble (usually with cold or fear), to shudder ; 1. For something to very quickly move back and forth. 2. To reverse, change ; To quiver, shake ;
'dar(d)	 verb-past 	'dar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To shiver, to tremble (usually with cold or fear), to shudder ; 1. For something to very quickly move back and forth. 2. To reverse, change ; To quiver, shake ;
'dar	 verb-fut 	'dar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To shiver, to tremble (usually with cold or fear), to shudder ; 1. For something to very quickly move back and forth. 2. To reverse, change ; To quiver, shake ;
'dal	 verb-pres 	'dal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To sink down ; To spread over, to be absorbed, to smudge ; To become larger through soaking with water ; To spread ;
dal(d)	 verb-past 	'dal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To sink down ; To spread over, to be absorbed, to smudge ; To become larger through soaking with water ; To spread ;
'dal	 verb-fut 	'dal	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To sink down ; To spread over, to be absorbed, to smudge ; To become larger through soaking with water ; To spread ;
'dal(d)	 verb-pres 	'dal	   To be free from other works, to be slow ;
dal	 verb-past 	'dal	   To be free from other works, to be slow ;
'dal	 verb-fut 	'dal	   To be free from other works, to be slow ;
'ding	 verb-pres 	'ding	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To spread on the ground (a mat &c.), lay out, sprinkle, strew (grass, hay) ; To spread mats &c., to lay down foundations, to plan ; To spread something on the surface of the ground ; To organize, lay out on the ground ;
btings	 verb-past 	'ding	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To spread on the ground (a mat &c.), lay out, sprinkle, strew (grass, hay) ; To spread mats &c., to lay down foundations, to plan ; To spread something on the surface of the ground ; To organize, lay out on the ground ;
gding	 verb-fut 	'ding	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To spread on the ground (a mat &c.), lay out, sprinkle, strew (grass, hay) ; To spread mats &c., to lay down foundations, to plan ; To spread something on the surface of the ground ; To organize, lay out on the ground ;
'du	 verb-pres 	'du	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To collect, accumulate. 2. To come together, to assemble (of men and animals). 3. To get married, to unite, to join together. 4. (in philosophical language) To unite. 5. To consist of, in ; 1. For many things to assemble. 2. To classify. 3. To mix together ; To assemble ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Stein 1942: 205)"]}
'dus	 verb-past 	'du	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To collect, accumulate. 2. To come together, to assemble (of men and animals). 3. To get married, to unite, to join together. 4. (in philosophical language) To unite. 5. To consist of, in ; 1. For many things to assemble. 2. To classify. 3. To mix together ; To assemble ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Stein 1942: 205)"]}
'du	 verb-fut 	'du	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To collect, accumulate. 2. To come together, to assemble (of men and animals). 3. To get married, to unite, to join together. 4. (in philosophical language) To unite. 5. To consist of, in ; 1. For many things to assemble. 2. To classify. 3. To mix together ; To assemble ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Stein 1942: 205)"]}
'dug	 verb-pres 	'dug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To sit, remain. 2. To be ; 1. To sit. 2. To remain, exist ; To sit, to stay ;
'dug	 verb-past 	'dug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To sit, remain. 2. To be ; 1. To sit. 2. To remain, exist ; To sit, to stay ;
'dug	 verb-fut 	'dug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To sit, remain. 2. To be ; 1. To sit. 2. To remain, exist ; To sit, to stay ;
	 verb-pres 	'dug	  
	 verb-past 	'dug	  
	 verb-fut 	'dug	  
'dud	 verb-pres 	'dud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bend, to make a bow ; To bow in greeting, to respect, to salute ; 1. To bend down. 2. To arrive in a near place ; To bow, pay respect ;
btud	 verb-past 	'dud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bend, to make a bow ; To bow in greeting, to respect, to salute ; 1. To bend down. 2. To arrive in a near place ; To bow, pay respect ;
btud	 verb-fut 	'dud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bend, to make a bow ; To bow in greeting, to respect, to salute ; 1. To bend down. 2. To arrive in a near place ; To bow, pay respect ;
'dun	 verb-pres 	'dun	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To long for, crave, to hanker after ; To desire, wish earnestly, to want, to expect ; To hope, to aspire for ; To hope, desire, seek ;
'dun(d)	 verb-past 	'dun	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To long for, crave, to hanker after ; To desire, wish earnestly, to want, to expect ; To hope, to aspire for ; To hope, desire, seek ;
'dun	 verb-fut 	'dun	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To long for, crave, to hanker after ; To desire, wish earnestly, to want, to expect ; To hope, to aspire for ; To hope, desire, seek ;
'dum	 verb-pres 	'dum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bring to reconciliation, to reconcile one's self to, to be reconciled with ; To be alright, to be harmonious ; 1. To be alright, to be harmonious. 2. (archaic) To become shorter ;
'dums	 verb-past 	'dum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bring to reconciliation, to reconcile one's self to, to be reconciled with ; To be alright, to be harmonious ; 1. To be alright, to be harmonious. 2. (archaic) To become shorter ;
'dum	 verb-fut 	'dum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To bring to reconciliation, to reconcile one's self to, to be reconciled with ; To be alright, to be harmonious ; 1. To be alright, to be harmonious. 2. (archaic) To become shorter ;
'dur	 verb-pres 	'dur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To trot, to run in a trot ; To go ; 1. To go moderately slow. 2. To fall apart, fall into pieces. 3. To be pressed down on ;
'dur(d)	 verb-past 	'dur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To trot, to run in a trot ; To go ; 1. To go moderately slow. 2. To fall apart, fall into pieces. 3. To be pressed down on ;
'dur	 verb-fut 	'dur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To trot, to run in a trot ; To go ; 1. To go moderately slow. 2. To fall apart, fall into pieces. 3. To be pressed down on ;
'dur	 verb-pres 	'dur	   (in Bon literature) To perform the main act of a Bon-po funeral rite ;
bdur	 verb-past 	'dur	   (in Bon literature) To perform the main act of a Bon-po funeral rite ;
	 verb-fut 	'dur	   (in Bon literature) To perform the main act of a Bon-po funeral rite ;
'dul	 verb-pres 	'dul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To subdue, conquer, vanquish, kill, annihilate. 2. To till, cultivate (waste land). 3. To tame, bring under right discipline. 4. To convert ; To subdue, to subjugate, to bring under control, to tame, make useful ; 1. To defeat. 2. To tame (a horse &c.). 3. To change, transform. 4. To powder, reduce to powder ; To make something bad good ; Compare gdul
btul	 verb-past 	'dul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To subdue, conquer, vanquish, kill, annihilate. 2. To till, cultivate (waste land). 3. To tame, bring under right discipline. 4. To convert ; To subdue, to subjugate, to bring under control, to tame, make useful ; 1. To defeat. 2. To tame (a horse &c.). 3. To change, transform. 4. To powder, reduce to powder ; To make something bad good ; Compare gdul
gtul	 verb-fut 	'dul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To subdue, conquer, vanquish, kill, annihilate. 2. To till, cultivate (waste land). 3. To tame, bring under right discipline. 4. To convert ; To subdue, to subjugate, to bring under control, to tame, make useful ; 1. To defeat. 2. To tame (a horse &c.). 3. To change, transform. 4. To powder, reduce to powder ; To make something bad good ; Compare gdul
'degs	 verb-pres 	'degs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To lift, raise, hold up, hoist. 2. To weigh ; To raise up, to lift up, to offer, to weight, measure ; To [put] something up high ; 1. To lift up, raise up. 2. To lift upon a scale ;
btegs	 verb-past 	'degs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To lift, raise, hold up, hoist. 2. To weigh ; To raise up, to lift up, to offer, to weight, measure ; To [put] something up high ; 1. To lift up, raise up. 2. To lift upon a scale ;
gtegs	 verb-fut 	'degs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To lift, raise, hold up, hoist. 2. To weigh ; To raise up, to lift up, to offer, to weight, measure ; To [put] something up high ; 1. To lift up, raise up. 2. To lift upon a scale ;
'deng	 verb-pres 	'deng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To go, go away, depart, vanish ; To go, to send a person ; To clear, vanish (of clouds, smoke &c.) ; Compare 'dong
dong	 verb-past 	'deng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To go, go away, depart, vanish ; To go, to send a person ; To clear, vanish (of clouds, smoke &c.) ; Compare 'dong
'dong	 verb-fut 	'deng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To go, go away, depart, vanish ; To go, to send a person ; To clear, vanish (of clouds, smoke &c.) ; Compare 'dong
'ded	 verb-pres 	'ded	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To drive, to drive out. 2. To bear away, bear along, bear off, to hurry off. 3. To call in, collect, recover ; To drive, to chase ; 1. To drive away, expel. 2. To chase after in order to apprehend ; 1. To drive away, to chase after. 2. To incite, provoke, make act. 3. To count, look into, investigate ;
bdas	 verb-past 	'ded	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To drive, to drive out. 2. To bear away, bear along, bear off, to hurry off. 3. To call in, collect, recover ; To drive, to chase ; 1. To drive away, expel. 2. To chase after in order to apprehend ; 1. To drive away, to chase after. 2. To incite, provoke, make act. 3. To count, look into, investigate ;
bda'	 verb-fut 	'ded	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To drive, to drive out. 2. To bear away, bear along, bear off, to hurry off. 3. To call in, collect, recover ; To drive, to chase ; 1. To drive away, expel. 2. To chase after in order to apprehend ; 1. To drive away, to chase after. 2. To incite, provoke, make act. 3. To count, look into, investigate ;
'ded	 verb-pres 	'ded	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To follow, to come out in succession, to succeed. 2. To drive, pursue ; 1. To urge (cattle &c) to return. 2. To chase after (game animals &c.) in order to catch. 3. To collect a debt. 4. To probe, to pursue thorough investigation. 5. To drive away ;
ded	 verb-past 	'ded	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To follow, to come out in succession, to succeed. 2. To drive, pursue ; 1. To urge (cattle &c) to return. 2. To chase after (game animals &c.) in order to catch. 3. To collect a debt. 4. To probe, to pursue thorough investigation. 5. To drive away ;
ded	 verb-fut 	'ded	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To follow, to come out in succession, to succeed. 2. To drive, pursue ; 1. To urge (cattle &c) to return. 2. To chase after (game animals &c.) in order to catch. 3. To collect a debt. 4. To probe, to pursue thorough investigation. 5. To drive away ;
'debs	 verb-pres 	'debs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To throw, strike, hit, offer (Rdo 46) ; To sow, to pray, to defame, libel falsely, to reply, answer ; To put a seed under ground, and make it grow ;  1. To sow, newly plant. 2. To do. 3. To ask, offer, pray ;
btab	 verb-past 	'debs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To throw, strike, hit, offer (Rdo 46) ; To sow, to pray, to defame, libel falsely, to reply, answer ; To put a seed under ground, and make it grow ;  1. To sow, newly plant. 2. To do. 3. To ask, offer, pray ;
gtab	 verb-fut 	'debs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To throw, strike, hit, offer (Rdo 46) ; To sow, to pray, to defame, libel falsely, to reply, answer ; To put a seed under ground, and make it grow ;  1. To sow, newly plant. 2. To do. 3. To ask, offer, pray ;
'dem	 verb-pres 	'dem	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To pick out, to mark out, to choose ; To prove, examine (Sch.) ; To choose, to select, to elect ; [To select] from the midst of many ; To choose, select ;
bdams	 verb-past 	'dem	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To pick out, to mark out, to choose ; To prove, examine (Sch.) ; To choose, to select, to elect ; [To select] from the midst of many ; To choose, select ;
bdam	 verb-fut 	'dem	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To pick out, to mark out, to choose ; To prove, examine (Sch.) ; To choose, to select, to elect ; [To select] from the midst of many ; To choose, select ;
'dog	 verb-pres 	'dog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To disappear after dying ;
btags	 verb-past 	'dog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To disappear after dying ;
gdag	 verb-fut 	'dog	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To disappear after dying ;
'dogs	 verb-pres 	'dogs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bind, fasten, attach, to tie round ; To name, to put on, to wear ornaments, to hang, suspend from, to make a false accusation ; 1. To tie, link (rope &c.). 2. To name something. 3. To speak about nothing (a fault, mistake &c.). 4. To establish benefit ; To tie, bind ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Haarh 1969: 313) ."]}
btags	 verb-past 	'dogs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bind, fasten, attach, to tie round ; To name, to put on, to wear ornaments, to hang, suspend from, to make a false accusation ; 1. To tie, link (rope &c.). 2. To name something. 3. To speak about nothing (a fault, mistake &c.). 4. To establish benefit ; To tie, bind ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Haarh 1969: 313) ."]}
gdags	 verb-fut 	'dogs	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To bind, fasten, attach, to tie round ; To name, to put on, to wear ornaments, to hang, suspend from, to make a false accusation ; 1. To tie, link (rope &c.). 2. To name something. 3. To speak about nothing (a fault, mistake &c.). 4. To establish benefit ; To tie, bind ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Haarh 1969: 313) ."]}
'dong	 verb-pres 	'dong	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   (archaic) To go, proceed ; To go ;  (archaic) To go, travel ; To go, go out, depart ; Compare 'deng
dong	 verb-past 	'dong	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   (archaic) To go, proceed ; To go ;  (archaic) To go, travel ; To go, go out, depart ; Compare 'deng
'dong	 verb-fut 	'dong	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   (archaic) To go, proceed ; To go ;  (archaic) To go, travel ; To go, go out, depart ; Compare 'deng
'dod	 verb-pres 	'dod	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To desire with the mind, to wish, to be willing ; To be agreeable, to like, to come to mind. 2. To assert, claim ; 1. To want, desire, crave. 2. To assert, claim ; (Jä) suggests a relationship with dad
'dod	 verb-past 	'dod	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To desire with the mind, to wish, to be willing ; To be agreeable, to like, to come to mind. 2. To assert, claim ; 1. To want, desire, crave. 2. To assert, claim ; (Jä) suggests a relationship with dad
'dod	 verb-fut 	'dod	Transitive:  Involuntary:   To desire with the mind, to wish, to be willing ; To be agreeable, to like, to come to mind. 2. To assert, claim ; 1. To want, desire, crave. 2. To assert, claim ; (Jä) suggests a relationship with dad
'don(d)	 verb-pres 	'don	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cause to go out, come forth, expel, throw out, eject ; To take, bring out, to expel, turn out ; 1. To read a book. 2. To take out, draw out. 3. To speak ;  1. To take out, open. 2. To speak, read. 3. To enthrone, install in power ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}
bton	 verb-past 	'don	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cause to go out, come forth, expel, throw out, eject ; To take, bring out, to expel, turn out ; 1. To read a book. 2. To take out, draw out. 3. To speak ;  1. To take out, open. 2. To speak, read. 3. To enthrone, install in power ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}
gdon	 verb-fut 	'don	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cause to go out, come forth, expel, throw out, eject ; To take, bring out, to expel, turn out ; 1. To read a book. 2. To take out, draw out. 3. To speak ;  1. To take out, open. 2. To speak, read. 3. To enthrone, install in power ;{:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Note: "]}
'dom	 verb-pres 	'dom	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To mix, encounter ; To gather together, bring to one place ;
'dom	 verb-past 	'dom	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To mix, encounter ; To gather together, bring to one place ;
'dom	 verb-fut 	'dom	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To mix, encounter ; To gather together, bring to one place ;
'doms	 verb-pres 	'doms	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To induce, to admonish, to exhort. 2. To assemble, to come together. 3. To demonstrate, explain. 4. To select, to choose ; To give advice, to advise ; To teach with helpful words ; To show, to teach ;
gdams	 verb-past 	'doms	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To induce, to admonish, to exhort. 2. To assemble, to come together. 3. To demonstrate, explain. 4. To select, to choose ; To give advice, to advise ; To teach with helpful words ; To show, to teach ;
gdams	 verb-fut 	'doms	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To induce, to admonish, to exhort. 2. To assemble, to come together. 3. To demonstrate, explain. 4. To select, to choose ; To give advice, to advise ; To teach with helpful words ; To show, to teach ;
'dor	 verb-pres 	'dor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cast forth, to throw out, to eject, to reject, to fling away, to sweep off, sweep away, to give up ; To throw, to give up, to cast aside ; 1. To separate, break a connection. 2. To discard, throw away. 3. To not carry mentally ; To give up, send away, discard, throw away ;
dor(d)	 verb-past 	'dor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cast forth, to throw out, to eject, to reject, to fling away, to sweep off, sweep away, to give up ; To throw, to give up, to cast aside ; 1. To separate, break a connection. 2. To discard, throw away. 3. To not carry mentally ; To give up, send away, discard, throw away ;
dor	 verb-fut 	'dor	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cast forth, to throw out, to eject, to reject, to fling away, to sweep off, sweep away, to give up ; To throw, to give up, to cast aside ; 1. To separate, break a connection. 2. To discard, throw away. 3. To not carry mentally ; To give up, send away, discard, throw away ;
'dra	 verb-pres 	'dra	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cut, clip, lop, dress, prune, pare with a knife or scissors ; To cut a piece of cloth for stitching ; To cut with scissors, to cut with a saw ; To cut ;
dras	 verb-past 	'dra	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cut, clip, lop, dress, prune, pare with a knife or scissors ; To cut a piece of cloth for stitching ; To cut with scissors, to cut with a saw ; To cut ;
dra	 verb-fut 	'dra	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To cut, clip, lop, dress, prune, pare with a knife or scissors ; To cut a piece of cloth for stitching ; To cut with scissors, to cut with a saw ; To cut ;
'dra	 verb-pres 	'dra	Intransitive:    1. To be similar. 2. To be one. 3. To be equal, alike ; To be similar ;
'dra	 verb-past 	'dra	Intransitive:    1. To be similar. 2. To be one. 3. To be equal, alike ; To be similar ;
'dra	 verb-fut 	'dra	Intransitive:    1. To be similar. 2. To be one. 3. To be equal, alike ; To be similar ;
'drad	 verb-pres 	'drad	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To scratch, scrape, tear with the claws ; To scratch, to rub with the finger nails, to rub ; To scrape with finger nails, to scratch, to rub, to draw ; To dig at the hard top surface (e.g. of the ground) ; To pick, pluck, tear ; To comb, scrape ; Compare hrad
brad	 verb-past 	'drad	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To scratch, scrape, tear with the claws ; To scratch, to rub with the finger nails, to rub ; To scrape with finger nails, to scratch, to rub, to draw ; To dig at the hard top surface (e.g. of the ground) ; To pick, pluck, tear ; To comb, scrape ; Compare hrad
dbrad	 verb-fut 	'drad	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To scratch, scrape, tear with the claws ; To scratch, to rub with the finger nails, to rub ; To scrape with finger nails, to scratch, to rub, to draw ; To dig at the hard top surface (e.g. of the ground) ; To pick, pluck, tear ; To comb, scrape ; Compare hrad
'dral	 verb-pres 	'dral	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To break, violate. 2. To tear to pieces, rend asunder, to rip open (an animal) ; To cause to be shameless, to do with out, to break, violate a promise or law ; 1. To spew forth from a hole in the outer layer of. 2. For something old to become rags, tatters ; To violate, break ; Compare hral
dral(d)	 verb-past 	'dral	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To break, violate. 2. To tear to pieces, rend asunder, to rip open (an animal) ; To cause to be shameless, to do with out, to break, violate a promise or law ; 1. To spew forth from a hole in the outer layer of. 2. For something old to become rags, tatters ; To violate, break ; Compare hral
dral	 verb-fut 	'dral	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To break, violate. 2. To tear to pieces, rend asunder, to rip open (an animal) ; To cause to be shameless, to do with out, to break, violate a promise or law ; 1. To spew forth from a hole in the outer layer of. 2. For something old to become rags, tatters ; To violate, break ; Compare hral
'dri	 verb-pres 	'dri	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To ask, to ask for, enquire after ; To ask another person to clarify key unknown points, or one's own ignorance ; To ask ;
dris	 verb-past 	'dri	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To ask, to ask for, enquire after ; To ask another person to clarify key unknown points, or one's own ignorance ; To ask ;
dri	 verb-fut 	'dri	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To ask, to ask for, enquire after ; To ask another person to clarify key unknown points, or one's own ignorance ; To ask ;
'dring	 verb-pres 	'dring	   1. To be distant. 2. (;
rings	 verb-past 	'dring	   1. To be distant. 2. (;
	 verb-fut 	'dring	   1. To be distant. 2. (;
'drid	 verb-pres 	'drid	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To entrap, delude, deceive, beguile, impose on ; To deceive, to delude ; To interest hither through deceptive means or objects ; To deceive ;
drid	 verb-past 	'drid	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To entrap, delude, deceive, beguile, impose on ; To deceive, to delude ; To interest hither through deceptive means or objects ; To deceive ;
drid	 verb-fut 	'drid	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To entrap, delude, deceive, beguile, impose on ; To deceive, to delude ; To interest hither through deceptive means or objects ; To deceive ;
'dril	 verb-pres 	'dril	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To roll down, to be rolled along, be rolled down. 2. To be joined, entwined, wrapped, enveloped. 3. To wrap up, to coil, to roll about ; To be rolled along, to be rolled down, to be struck ; 1. To bring together in one place. 2. To make round, into a ball, roll up ; 1. To make round, form into a ball. 2. To roll up (e.g. a scroll painting). 3. To gather ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Róna-Tas 1978: 359) ."]}
dril	 verb-past 	'dril	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To roll down, to be rolled along, be rolled down. 2. To be joined, entwined, wrapped, enveloped. 3. To wrap up, to coil, to roll about ; To be rolled along, to be rolled down, to be struck ; 1. To bring together in one place. 2. To make round, into a ball, roll up ; 1. To make round, form into a ball. 2. To roll up (e.g. a scroll painting). 3. To gather ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Róna-Tas 1978: 359) ."]}
'dril	 verb-fut 	'dril	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To roll down, to be rolled along, be rolled down. 2. To be joined, entwined, wrapped, enveloped. 3. To wrap up, to coil, to roll about ; To be rolled along, to be rolled down, to be struck ; 1. To bring together in one place. 2. To make round, into a ball, roll up ; 1. To make round, form into a ball. 2. To roll up (e.g. a scroll painting). 3. To gather ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Róna-Tas 1978: 359) ."]}
'dris	 verb-pres 	'dris	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be well acquainted with, to know intimately, to be accustomed to ; To be acquainted with, to be known, to be used to, to be associated with ; 1. To acquire familiarity with. 2. To be fond of, to love ; To get familiar with, to get accustomed to ;
'dris	 verb-past 	'dris	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be well acquainted with, to know intimately, to be accustomed to ; To be acquainted with, to be known, to be used to, to be associated with ; 1. To acquire familiarity with. 2. To be fond of, to love ; To get familiar with, to get accustomed to ;
'dris	 verb-fut 	'dris	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be well acquainted with, to know intimately, to be accustomed to ; To be acquainted with, to be known, to be used to, to be associated with ; 1. To acquire familiarity with. 2. To be fond of, to love ; To get familiar with, to get accustomed to ;
'dru	 verb-pres 	'dru	Transitive: Voluntary:   To dig a hole, ditch ; To pry into, scrutinize, probe, inflame, irritate ; To dig a hole, ditch, to dig ; To dig earth, to make a hole, to dig out, to search out ; 1. To dig a hole. 2. To find faults ;  To dig ; 1. To take out. 2. To dig, dig out ; To dig, dig out ;
drus	 verb-past 	'dru	Transitive: Voluntary:   To dig a hole, ditch ; To pry into, scrutinize, probe, inflame, irritate ; To dig a hole, ditch, to dig ; To dig earth, to make a hole, to dig out, to search out ; 1. To dig a hole. 2. To find faults ;  To dig ; 1. To take out. 2. To dig, dig out ; To dig, dig out ;
'dru	 verb-fut 	'dru	Transitive: Voluntary:   To dig a hole, ditch ; To pry into, scrutinize, probe, inflame, irritate ; To dig a hole, ditch, to dig ; To dig earth, to make a hole, to dig out, to search out ; 1. To dig a hole. 2. To find faults ;  To dig ; 1. To take out. 2. To dig, dig out ; To dig, dig out ;
'drugs	 verb-pres 	'drugs	   1. To stir up, agitate. 2. To fall into small pieces, to crumble away (Sch.) ;
	 verb-past 	'drugs	   1. To stir up, agitate. 2. To fall into small pieces, to crumble away (Sch.) ;
	 verb-fut 	'drugs	   1. To stir up, agitate. 2. To fall into small pieces, to crumble away (Sch.) ;
'drud	 verb-pres 	'drud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To drag, haul, pull along. 2. To rub ; To drag, to push a penis in, to harm a woman's private parts by pushing in ; 1. To go while dragging something. 2. To file something rough ; To drag across the ground ; Compare 'brud
drud	 verb-past 	'drud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To drag, haul, pull along. 2. To rub ; To drag, to push a penis in, to harm a woman's private parts by pushing in ; 1. To go while dragging something. 2. To file something rough ; To drag across the ground ; Compare 'brud
drud	 verb-fut 	'drud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To drag, haul, pull along. 2. To rub ; To drag, to push a penis in, to harm a woman's private parts by pushing in ; 1. To go while dragging something. 2. To file something rough ; To drag across the ground ; Compare 'brud
'drub	 verb-pres 	'drub	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To heal up ; To heal a wound ; For a wound to heal ; Compare rub
drubs	 verb-past 	'drub	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To heal up ; To heal a wound ; For a wound to heal ; Compare rub
drub	 verb-fut 	'drub	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To heal up ; To heal a wound ; For a wound to heal ; Compare rub
'drub	 verb-pres 	'drub	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To sew. 2. To embroider ; To stitch, to sew ; To sew ; Compare rub
drubs	 verb-past 	'drub	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To sew. 2. To embroider ; To stitch, to sew ; To sew ; Compare rub
drub	 verb-fut 	'drub	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To sew. 2. To embroider ; To stitch, to sew ; To sew ; Compare rub
'drums	 verb-pres 	'drums	   To harm, be a bad omen ; To split, break, crumble, collapse ; Compare drum
drums	 verb-past 	'drums	   To harm, be a bad omen ; To split, break, crumble, collapse ; Compare drum
	 verb-fut 	'drums	   To harm, be a bad omen ; To split, break, crumble, collapse ; Compare drum
'drul	 verb-pres 	'drul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make rot ; (archaic) To rot ; Compare 'brul
drul	 verb-past 	'drul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make rot ; (archaic) To rot ; Compare 'brul
'drul	 verb-fut 	'drul	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make rot ; (archaic) To rot ; Compare 'brul
'dre	 verb-pres 	'dre	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To be mixed up with, to blend with, to go together. 2. To discriminate by intelligence. 3. To interfere with to, to have intercourse with, to engage in ; To be mixed, to blend together, to go together ; To gather together unlike things ;
'dres	 verb-past 	'dre	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To be mixed up with, to blend with, to go together. 2. To discriminate by intelligence. 3. To interfere with to, to have intercourse with, to engage in ; To be mixed, to blend together, to go together ; To gather together unlike things ;
'dre	 verb-fut 	'dre	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To be mixed up with, to blend with, to go together. 2. To discriminate by intelligence. 3. To interfere with to, to have intercourse with, to engage in ; To be mixed, to blend together, to go together ; To gather together unlike things ;
'dreg	 verb-pres 	'dreg	Transitive: Voluntary:   To excise, shave the hair, pare the nails &c. ; To lop off, prune, amputate ; To cut, shave ; To cut evenly many fine things with a knife or sickle ; To cut ; Compare regs
regs	 verb-past 	'dreg	Transitive: Voluntary:   To excise, shave the hair, pare the nails &c. ; To lop off, prune, amputate ; To cut, shave ; To cut evenly many fine things with a knife or sickle ; To cut ; Compare regs
dreg	 verb-fut 	'dreg	Transitive: Voluntary:   To excise, shave the hair, pare the nails &c. ; To lop off, prune, amputate ; To cut, shave ; To cut evenly many fine things with a knife or sickle ; To cut ; Compare regs
'dregs	 verb-pres 	'dregs	Intransitive:    To reach the point of burning (once dried by the heat of fire, the sun &c.) ;
'dregs	 verb-past 	'dregs	Intransitive:    To reach the point of burning (once dried by the heat of fire, the sun &c.) ;
'dregs	 verb-fut 	'dregs	Intransitive:    To reach the point of burning (once dried by the heat of fire, the sun &c.) ;
'dred	 verb-pres 	'dred	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be sick of (at heart), to be disgusted, annoyed. 2. To slide, glide, slip (Jä) ; To slip off, to loose one's footing ; 1. To be irritated, annoyed. 2. [To loose footing, slip, slide] ; To loose one's footing ;
'gred	 verb-past 	'dred	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be sick of (at heart), to be disgusted, annoyed. 2. To slide, glide, slip (Jä) ; To slip off, to loose one's footing ; 1. To be irritated, annoyed. 2. [To loose footing, slip, slide] ; To loose one's footing ;
'gred	 verb-fut 	'dred	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be sick of (at heart), to be disgusted, annoyed. 2. To slide, glide, slip (Jä) ; To slip off, to loose one's footing ; 1. To be irritated, annoyed. 2. [To loose footing, slip, slide] ; To loose one's footing ;
drang	 verb-pres 	'dren	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To draw, to pull. 2. To conduct, to draw along, to invite ; (; 1. To draw, to pull. 2. To conduct, to lead a group of soldiers in war, to lead, guide. 3.  To invite. 4. To derogate ; 1. To lead. 2. (honorific) To give, to pour for someone. 3. To desire, love, crave. 4. To give the scriptural reference for the reason behind the correct view and explanation. 5. To bring, to draw in one direction. 6. To guide ; 1. To draw. 2. To lead. 3. To offer, give to eat or drink. 4. To cite. 5.  To desire, love, be attached to ; To be separated into two verbs 'dren
'dren(d)	 verb-past 	'dren	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To draw, to pull. 2. To conduct, to draw along, to invite ; (; 1. To draw, to pull. 2. To conduct, to lead a group of soldiers in war, to lead, guide. 3.  To invite. 4. To derogate ; 1. To lead. 2. (honorific) To give, to pour for someone. 3. To desire, love, crave. 4. To give the scriptural reference for the reason behind the correct view and explanation. 5. To bring, to draw in one direction. 6. To guide ; 1. To draw. 2. To lead. 3. To offer, give to eat or drink. 4. To cite. 5.  To desire, love, be attached to ; To be separated into two verbs 'dren
drang	 verb-fut 	'dren	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To draw, to pull. 2. To conduct, to draw along, to invite ; (; 1. To draw, to pull. 2. To conduct, to lead a group of soldiers in war, to lead, guide. 3.  To invite. 4. To derogate ; 1. To lead. 2. (honorific) To give, to pour for someone. 3. To desire, love, crave. 4. To give the scriptural reference for the reason behind the correct view and explanation. 5. To bring, to draw in one direction. 6. To guide ; 1. To draw. 2. To lead. 3. To offer, give to eat or drink. 4. To cite. 5.  To desire, love, be attached to ; To be separated into two verbs 'dren
'drog	 verb-pres 	'drog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wince, shrink, quiver, shudder (from fear) ; To wince, to be surprised by fear ; To be scared and jump, run (of a horse, mule &c.) ; To wince, to shrink from fear ;
'drogs	 verb-past 	'drog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wince, shrink, quiver, shudder (from fear) ; To wince, to be surprised by fear ; To be scared and jump, run (of a horse, mule &c.) ; To wince, to shrink from fear ;
'drog	 verb-fut 	'drog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To wince, shrink, quiver, shudder (from fear) ; To wince, to be surprised by fear ; To be scared and jump, run (of a horse, mule &c.) ; To wince, to shrink from fear ;
'drong	 verb-pres 	'drong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To believe, to confide in ; To come, arrive as a guest ; To draw out, take out ; To become available, to arrive ; Compare 'dren
'drongs	 verb-past 	'drong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To believe, to confide in ; To come, arrive as a guest ; To draw out, take out ; To become available, to arrive ; Compare 'dren
'drong	 verb-fut 	'drong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To believe, to confide in ; To come, arrive as a guest ; To draw out, take out ; To become available, to arrive ; Compare 'dren
rdor	 verb-pres 	rdar	Transitive: Voluntary:   To sharpen, grind ; To sharpen a knife, to sharpen, to rub ; To rub against (a stone &c.) in order to sharpen (a knife &c.) ; 1. To sharpen (a knife &c.). 2. To judge, investigate ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 75)"]}
brdar(d)	 verb-past 	rdar	Transitive: Voluntary:   To sharpen, grind ; To sharpen a knife, to sharpen, to rub ; To rub against (a stone &c.) in order to sharpen (a knife &c.) ; 1. To sharpen (a knife &c.). 2. To judge, investigate ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 75)"]}
brdar	 verb-fut 	rdar	Transitive: Voluntary:   To sharpen, grind ; To sharpen a knife, to sharpen, to rub ; To rub against (a stone &c.) in order to sharpen (a knife &c.) ; 1. To sharpen (a knife &c.). 2. To judge, investigate ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 75)"]}
rdal	 verb-pres 	rdal	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To spread, stretch out, include ; To spread over, to scatter ; For something to spread out ; To spread ;
brdal(d)	 verb-past 	rdal	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To spread, stretch out, include ; To spread over, to scatter ; For something to spread out ; To spread ;
brdal	 verb-fut 	rdal	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To spread, stretch out, include ; To spread over, to scatter ; For something to spread out ; To spread ;
rdib	 verb-pres 	rdib	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To crumble, to fall to pieces, to collapse, cave in ; To crumble, to collapse, to cave in ; To cause to collapse, to cause to cave in ; For the outer side to become concave ; To collapse inward, to cave in ;
brdibs	 verb-past 	rdib	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To crumble, to fall to pieces, to collapse, cave in ; To crumble, to collapse, to cave in ; To cause to collapse, to cause to cave in ; For the outer side to become concave ; To collapse inward, to cave in ;
brdib	 verb-fut 	rdib	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To crumble, to fall to pieces, to collapse, cave in ; To crumble, to collapse, to cave in ; To cause to collapse, to cause to cave in ; For the outer side to become concave ; To collapse inward, to cave in ;
rdu	 verb-pres 	rdu	  
rdus	 verb-past 	rdu	  
rdu	 verb-fut 	rdu	  
rdug	 verb-pres 	rdug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To conquer, worst. 2. To devastate, wreck, undo ; To conquer, defeat ; 1. To end, finish, come up to, come up against. 2. To be apprehensive, to fear, to become irritated ;
brdugs	 verb-past 	rdug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To conquer, worst. 2. To devastate, wreck, undo ; To conquer, defeat ; 1. To end, finish, come up to, come up against. 2. To be apprehensive, to fear, to become irritated ;
brdug	 verb-fut 	rdug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To conquer, worst. 2. To devastate, wreck, undo ; To conquer, defeat ; 1. To end, finish, come up to, come up against. 2. To be apprehensive, to fear, to become irritated ;
rdung	 verb-pres 	rdung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To beat, strike, drum. 2. To break to pieces, to beat out ; To beat a drum, to beat, to hit, to dance, to make ; To make a sound, to hit, strike an instrument (e.g. a drum &c.) with a stick, to mutually contact [e.g. a cymbal] ; 1. To bring together, hit, strike. 2. To dance ;
brdungs	 verb-past 	rdung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To beat, strike, drum. 2. To break to pieces, to beat out ; To beat a drum, to beat, to hit, to dance, to make ; To make a sound, to hit, strike an instrument (e.g. a drum &c.) with a stick, to mutually contact [e.g. a cymbal] ; 1. To bring together, hit, strike. 2. To dance ;
brdung	 verb-fut 	rdung	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To beat, strike, drum. 2. To break to pieces, to beat out ; To beat a drum, to beat, to hit, to dance, to make ; To make a sound, to hit, strike an instrument (e.g. a drum &c.) with a stick, to mutually contact [e.g. a cymbal] ; 1. To bring together, hit, strike. 2. To dance ;
rdum	 verb-pres 	rdum	Transitive:    To cut across, to cut transversely ;
rdum	 verb-past 	rdum	Transitive:    To cut across, to cut transversely ;
rdum	 verb-fut 	rdum	Transitive:    To cut across, to cut transversely ;
brdul	 verb-pres 	rdul	   1. To deceive, to cheat. 2. To swing, brandish, flourish ; To wave one's hand, to cause to subdue ;
brdul(d)	 verb-past 	rdul	   1. To deceive, to cheat. 2. To swing, brandish, flourish ; To wave one's hand, to cause to subdue ;
brdul	 verb-fut 	rdul	   1. To deceive, to cheat. 2. To swing, brandish, flourish ; To wave one's hand, to cause to subdue ;
rdeg	 verb-pres 	rdeg	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To beat, strike, smite. 2. To push, thrust, knock, kick ; To hit, beat ; To strike ; To hit, strike ;
brdegs	 verb-past 	rdeg	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To beat, strike, smite. 2. To push, thrust, knock, kick ; To hit, beat ; To strike ; To hit, strike ;
brdeg	 verb-fut 	rdeg	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To beat, strike, smite. 2. To push, thrust, knock, kick ; To hit, beat ; To strike ; To hit, strike ;
rdeb	 verb-pres 	rdeb	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To throw down with a clap, to fling, knock down. 2. To throw to and fro, to toss about. 3. To stumble ; To clap, to strike together sharply, to slam a door, bang a door ; 1. To bring together, to meet, to clap. 2. To shake, move back and forth. 3. To hit, strike ; To hit, strike ;
brdabs	 verb-past 	rdeb	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To throw down with a clap, to fling, knock down. 2. To throw to and fro, to toss about. 3. To stumble ; To clap, to strike together sharply, to slam a door, bang a door ; 1. To bring together, to meet, to clap. 2. To shake, move back and forth. 3. To hit, strike ; To hit, strike ;
brdab	 verb-fut 	rdeb	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To throw down with a clap, to fling, knock down. 2. To throw to and fro, to toss about. 3. To stumble ; To clap, to strike together sharply, to slam a door, bang a door ; 1. To bring together, to meet, to clap. 2. To shake, move back and forth. 3. To hit, strike ; To hit, strike ;
rdod	 verb-pres 	rdod	   Compare 'drid
brdod	 verb-past 	rdod	   Compare 'drid
brdod	 verb-fut 	rdod	   Compare 'drid
rdob	 verb-pres 	rdob	   To give, offer ;
	 verb-past 	rdob	   To give, offer ;
	 verb-fut 	rdob	   To give, offer ;
rdol	 verb-pres 	rdol	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To come forth, to make its appearance, to come up (as of a plane), to be revealed ; 1. To reveal a secret. 2. To cause to become disorderly ; To suddenly arise, to multiply ;
brdol(d)	 verb-past 	rdol	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To come forth, to make its appearance, to come up (as of a plane), to be revealed ; 1. To reveal a secret. 2. To cause to become disorderly ; To suddenly arise, to multiply ;
brdol	 verb-fut 	rdol	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To come forth, to make its appearance, to come up (as of a plane), to be revealed ; 1. To reveal a secret. 2. To cause to become disorderly ; To suddenly arise, to multiply ;
rdol	 verb-pres 	rdol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To become a hole, to come out forcefully, to leak, to leak out ; For an opening to appear in something ; To break ;
rdol(d)	 verb-past 	rdol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To become a hole, to come out forcefully, to leak, to leak out ; For an opening to appear in something ; To break ;
rdol	 verb-fut 	rdol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To become a hole, to come out forcefully, to leak, to leak out ; For an opening to appear in something ; To break ;
rdos	 verb-pres 	rdos	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To break, burst, flow out ; To burst out, bubble ; To swell, surge, bubble ; To rise up, emerge, appear ;
rdos	 verb-past 	rdos	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To break, burst, flow out ; To burst out, bubble ; To swell, surge, bubble ; To rise up, emerge, appear ;
rdos	 verb-fut 	rdos	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To break, burst, flow out ; To burst out, bubble ; To swell, surge, bubble ; To rise up, emerge, appear ;
ldag	 verb-pres 	ldag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To lick ; To touch something, take something with the tongue ; To lick ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 77)"]}
bldags	 verb-past 	ldag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To lick ; To touch something, take something with the tongue ; To lick ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 77)"]}
bldag	 verb-fut 	ldag	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To lick ; To touch something, take something with the tongue ; To lick ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 77)"]}
ldang	 verb-pres 	ldang	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To rise, to get up, to flow up (as smoke). 2. To suffice, to be sufficient, enough ; To get up, to rise from ; 1. To arise, move. 2. To reach a measure. 3. To rise up ; To rise ; Compare lang
ldang	 verb-past 	ldang	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To rise, to get up, to flow up (as smoke). 2. To suffice, to be sufficient, enough ; To get up, to rise from ; 1. To arise, move. 2. To reach a measure. 3. To rise up ; To rise ; Compare lang
ldang	 verb-fut 	ldang	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To rise, to get up, to flow up (as smoke). 2. To suffice, to be sufficient, enough ; To get up, to rise from ; 1. To arise, move. 2. To reach a measure. 3. To rise up ; To rise ; Compare lang
ldang	 verb-pres 	ldang	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To rise, to get up, to flow up (as smoke). 2. To suffice, to be sufficient, enough ; To rise in the sky ; 1. To rise, spread, fumigate. 2. To reach a measure, complete, equal ; Compare lang
langs	 verb-past 	ldang	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To rise, to get up, to flow up (as smoke). 2. To suffice, to be sufficient, enough ; To rise in the sky ; 1. To rise, spread, fumigate. 2. To reach a measure, complete, equal ; Compare lang
ldang	 verb-fut 	ldang	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To rise, to get up, to flow up (as smoke). 2. To suffice, to be sufficient, enough ; To rise in the sky ; 1. To rise, spread, fumigate. 2. To reach a measure, complete, equal ; Compare lang
ldad	 verb-pres 	ldad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To chew ; To chew, to chew cud, to ruminate ; To grind up food with the teeth inside the mouth ; 1. To chew. 2. To eat by bringing back into the mouth previously swallowed food (of cattle &c.) ; Compare blad
bldad	 verb-past 	ldad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To chew ; To chew, to chew cud, to ruminate ; To grind up food with the teeth inside the mouth ; 1. To chew. 2. To eat by bringing back into the mouth previously swallowed food (of cattle &c.) ; Compare blad
bldad	 verb-fut 	ldad	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To chew ; To chew, to chew cud, to ruminate ; To grind up food with the teeth inside the mouth ; 1. To chew. 2. To eat by bringing back into the mouth previously swallowed food (of cattle &c.) ; Compare blad
ldan	 verb-pres 	ldan	   To have, posses ;
ldan(d)	 verb-past 	ldan	   To have, posses ;
ldan	 verb-fut 	ldan	   To have, posses ;
ldab	 verb-pres 	ldab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To fold up. 2. To repeat, to do again (Cs.) ; To repeat, to do again ; To repeat ;
bldabs	 verb-past 	ldab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To fold up. 2. To repeat, to do again (Cs.) ; To repeat, to do again ; To repeat ;
bldab	 verb-fut 	ldab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To fold up. 2. To repeat, to do again (Cs.) ; To repeat, to do again ; To repeat ;
ldar	 verb-pres 	ldar	Intransitive:    To be weary, tired, faint ; To become soft from soaking in water ;
ldar	 verb-past 	ldar	Intransitive:    To be weary, tired, faint ; To become soft from soaking in water ;
ldar	 verb-fut 	ldar	Intransitive:    To be weary, tired, faint ; To become soft from soaking in water ;
ldig	 verb-pres 	ldig	Intransitive:    To quiver, shudder, wiggle ; To stamp the ground with the foot. ;
ldigs	 verb-past 	ldig	Intransitive:    To quiver, shudder, wiggle ; To stamp the ground with the foot. ;
ldig	 verb-fut 	ldig	Intransitive:    To quiver, shudder, wiggle ; To stamp the ground with the foot. ;
lding	 verb-pres 	lding	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To float, to be swimming, to be suspended, floating, soaring (in the air) ; 1. (with hands and feet separate from the surface of the ground) To raise up and jump down. 2. To fly ; To leap, float, fly ;
lding	 verb-past 	lding	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To float, to be swimming, to be suspended, floating, soaring (in the air) ; 1. (with hands and feet separate from the surface of the ground) To raise up and jump down. 2. To fly ; To leap, float, fly ;
lding	 verb-fut 	lding	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To float, to be swimming, to be suspended, floating, soaring (in the air) ; 1. (with hands and feet separate from the surface of the ground) To raise up and jump down. 2. To fly ; To leap, float, fly ;
ldir	 verb-pres 	ldir	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be distended, inflated. 2. To rush, to roar (of wind), to roll (of thunder) ; To make a loud noise ; To make a medicinal drink ;
bldir	 verb-past 	ldir	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be distended, inflated. 2. To rush, to roar (of wind), to roll (of thunder) ; To make a loud noise ; To make a medicinal drink ;
bldir	 verb-fut 	ldir	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To be distended, inflated. 2. To rush, to roar (of wind), to roll (of thunder) ; To make a loud noise ; To make a medicinal drink ;
ldug	 verb-pres 	ldug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To pour out, pour into, to sprinkle, to strew, to cast, to found (metal) ; To pour into a pot, to fill ; To pour, to put in ; To pout into, to put in ; To pour a liquid, grain, or something similar from one vessel into another vessel ; To pour, to put in ; To pour ; Compare lug
ldugs	 verb-past 	ldug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To pour out, pour into, to sprinkle, to strew, to cast, to found (metal) ; To pour into a pot, to fill ; To pour, to put in ; To pout into, to put in ; To pour a liquid, grain, or something similar from one vessel into another vessel ; To pour, to put in ; To pour ; Compare lug
ldug	 verb-fut 	ldug	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To pour out, pour into, to sprinkle, to strew, to cast, to found (metal) ; To pour into a pot, to fill ; To pour, to put in ; To pout into, to put in ; To pour a liquid, grain, or something similar from one vessel into another vessel ; To pour, to put in ; To pour ; Compare lug
ldud	 verb-pres 	ldud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To give to drink, to water (cattle &c.) ; 1. To pour out. 2. To offer ; 1. To give water. 2. To give some drink. 3.  To give ;  To have drink a kind of beverage ; To drink, pour, give ; To give to drink ;
bldud	 verb-past 	ldud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To give to drink, to water (cattle &c.) ; 1. To pour out. 2. To offer ; 1. To give water. 2. To give some drink. 3.  To give ;  To have drink a kind of beverage ; To drink, pour, give ; To give to drink ;
ldud	 verb-fut 	ldud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To give to drink, to water (cattle &c.) ; 1. To pour out. 2. To offer ; 1. To give water. 2. To give some drink. 3.  To give ;  To have drink a kind of beverage ; To drink, pour, give ; To give to drink ;
ldur	 verb-pres 	ldur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To reach the point of disintegration by saturation with water ; To become soft ;
ldur	 verb-past 	ldur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To reach the point of disintegration by saturation with water ; To become soft ;
ldur	 verb-fut 	ldur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To reach the point of disintegration by saturation with water ; To become soft ;
lde	 verb-pres 	lde	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To warm oneself, to be warmed at, warmed by ; To sunbathe, to warm at fire ; To make something warm or dry by placing it near a fire or in sunlight ; To heat, warm ;
ldes	 verb-past 	lde	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To warm oneself, to be warmed at, warmed by ; To sunbathe, to warm at fire ; To make something warm or dry by placing it near a fire or in sunlight ; To heat, warm ;
lde	 verb-fut 	lde	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To warm oneself, to be warmed at, warmed by ; To sunbathe, to warm at fire ; To make something warm or dry by placing it near a fire or in sunlight ; To heat, warm ;
ldeg	 verb-pres 	ldeg	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To quake, shake, tremble (e.g. the palace of the gods) (Dzl.) ; 1. To move, shake. 2. To eat, chew ; 1. To move. 2. To chew ;
bdeg	 verb-past 	ldeg	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To quake, shake, tremble (e.g. the palace of the gods) (Dzl.) ; 1. To move, shake. 2. To eat, chew ; 1. To move. 2. To chew ;
bldeg	 verb-fut 	ldeg	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To quake, shake, tremble (e.g. the palace of the gods) (Dzl.) ; 1. To move, shake. 2. To eat, chew ; 1. To move. 2. To chew ;
ldeb	 verb-pres 	ldeb	   To bend round, bend back, to turn round, to double down, double over ;
	 verb-past 	ldeb	   To bend round, bend back, to turn round, to double down, double over ;
	 verb-fut 	ldeb	   To bend round, bend back, to turn round, to double down, double over ;
ldog	 verb-pres 	ldog	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To come back, to return, to go home. 2. To send back. 3. To change, to undergo a change. 3. (used with ; To go back, to be returned ; 1. To arrive again at, go again to a previous place. 2. To turn around, turn back. 3. To exchange places with something unlike ; 1. To turn back, return. 2. To naturally reject. 3. To change, fade (of colors &c.) ; Compare log
ldog	 verb-past 	ldog	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To come back, to return, to go home. 2. To send back. 3. To change, to undergo a change. 3. (used with ; To go back, to be returned ; 1. To arrive again at, go again to a previous place. 2. To turn around, turn back. 3. To exchange places with something unlike ; 1. To turn back, return. 2. To naturally reject. 3. To change, fade (of colors &c.) ; Compare log
ldog	 verb-fut 	ldog	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To come back, to return, to go home. 2. To send back. 3. To change, to undergo a change. 3. (used with ; To go back, to be returned ; 1. To arrive again at, go again to a previous place. 2. To turn around, turn back. 3. To exchange places with something unlike ; 1. To turn back, return. 2. To naturally reject. 3. To change, fade (of colors &c.) ; Compare log
ldong	 verb-pres 	ldong	Intransitive:    1. To become blind. 2. To be infatuated ; To become blind ; For the power of sight to deteriorate ; Compare long
ldongs	 verb-past 	ldong	Intransitive:    1. To become blind. 2. To be infatuated ; To become blind ; For the power of sight to deteriorate ; Compare long
ldong	 verb-fut 	ldong	Intransitive:    1. To become blind. 2. To be infatuated ; To become blind ; For the power of sight to deteriorate ; Compare long
ldon	 verb-pres 	ldon	Transitive:    To give back, pay back, return ; (archaic) To reply, answer ; Compare lan
ldon	 verb-past 	ldon	Transitive:    To give back, pay back, return ; (archaic) To reply, answer ; Compare lan
ldon	 verb-fut 	ldon	Transitive:    To give back, pay back, return ; (archaic) To reply, answer ; Compare lan
ldob	 verb-pres 	ldob	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To apprehend quickly, to be witty, to be quick in repartee (Cs.) ; (archaic) understand, to understand after studying ; To learn, become familiar with ; Compare slob
ldobs	 verb-past 	ldob	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To apprehend quickly, to be witty, to be quick in repartee (Cs.) ; (archaic) understand, to understand after studying ; To learn, become familiar with ; Compare slob
ldob	 verb-fut 	ldob	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To apprehend quickly, to be witty, to be quick in repartee (Cs.) ; (archaic) understand, to understand after studying ; To learn, become familiar with ; Compare slob
ldom	 verb-pres 	ldom	Intransitive:    To go to no particular place, wander ;
ldom	 verb-past 	ldom	Intransitive:    To go to no particular place, wander ;
ldom	 verb-fut 	ldom	Intransitive:    To go to no particular place, wander ;
sdang	 verb-pres 	sdang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To hate, to be angry, wrathful ; To hate, to fill with wrath ; 1. To hate, be angry. 2. To harm, be abusive ; To hate, be angry, be unhappy, contend with ;
sdang	 verb-past 	sdang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To hate, to be angry, wrathful ; To hate, to fill with wrath ; 1. To hate, be angry. 2. To harm, be abusive ; To hate, be angry, be unhappy, contend with ;
sdang	 verb-fut 	sdang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To hate, to be angry, wrathful ; To hate, to fill with wrath ; 1. To hate, be angry. 2. To harm, be abusive ; To hate, be angry, be unhappy, contend with ;
sdangs	 verb-pres 	sdangs	  
bsdangs	 verb-past 	sdangs	  
sdangs	 verb-fut 	sdangs	  
sdar	 verb-pres 	sdar	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To fear, be afraid ;
sdar	 verb-past 	sdar	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To fear, be afraid ;
sdar	 verb-fut 	sdar	Intransitive: Involuntary:   To fear, be afraid ;
bsdig	 verb-pres 	sdig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To point towards, point at, to point out, to threaten, to sting ; To scold, to frighten, to warm, to aim ; 1. To speak harsh words to a person. 2. To produce fear, frighten ; 1. To frighten, scare. 2. To abuse, revile. 3. To aim at a target, to prepare to strike ;
bsdigs	 verb-past 	sdig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To point towards, point at, to point out, to threaten, to sting ; To scold, to frighten, to warm, to aim ; 1. To speak harsh words to a person. 2. To produce fear, frighten ; 1. To frighten, scare. 2. To abuse, revile. 3. To aim at a target, to prepare to strike ;
bsdig	 verb-fut 	sdig	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To point towards, point at, to point out, to threaten, to sting ; To scold, to frighten, to warm, to aim ; 1. To speak harsh words to a person. 2. To produce fear, frighten ; 1. To frighten, scare. 2. To abuse, revile. 3. To aim at a target, to prepare to strike ;
sdug	 verb-pres 	sdug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To become sad ; 1. To come to mind. 2. To be sad ;
sdug	 verb-past 	sdug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To become sad ; 1. To come to mind. 2. To be sad ;
sdug	 verb-fut 	sdug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To become sad ; 1. To come to mind. 2. To be sad ;
sdud	 verb-pres 	sdud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To collect, gather, mass together, range together, to assemble, to put together. 2. To unite, join, condense, add together ; To collect, bring together, gather, conclude ; To collect, gather (scattered things into one place). 2. To summon, call hither. 3. To conclude, draw to a close. 4. To make fewer. 5. To rule, have power. 6. To shrink, contract smaller ; 1. To gather, assemble, bring together. 2. To tie, bind ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Stein 1942: 205)"]}
bsdus	 verb-past 	sdud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To collect, gather, mass together, range together, to assemble, to put together. 2. To unite, join, condense, add together ; To collect, bring together, gather, conclude ; To collect, gather (scattered things into one place). 2. To summon, call hither. 3. To conclude, draw to a close. 4. To make fewer. 5. To rule, have power. 6. To shrink, contract smaller ; 1. To gather, assemble, bring together. 2. To tie, bind ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Stein 1942: 205)"]}
bsdu	 verb-fut 	sdud	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To collect, gather, mass together, range together, to assemble, to put together. 2. To unite, join, condense, add together ; To collect, bring together, gather, conclude ; To collect, gather (scattered things into one place). 2. To summon, call hither. 3. To conclude, draw to a close. 4. To make fewer. 5. To rule, have power. 6. To shrink, contract smaller ; 1. To gather, assemble, bring together. 2. To tie, bind ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Stein 1942: 205)"]}
sdum	 verb-pres 	sdum	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To make agree, to bring to an agreement, to reconcile, to conciliate ; To make one agree, to bring to an agreement, to cause to conciliate ; 1. To make alright, to make harmonious. 2. To make peaceful ; To make harmonious ; Compare zlum
bsdums	 verb-past 	sdum	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To make agree, to bring to an agreement, to reconcile, to conciliate ; To make one agree, to bring to an agreement, to cause to conciliate ; 1. To make alright, to make harmonious. 2. To make peaceful ; To make harmonious ; Compare zlum
bsdum	 verb-fut 	sdum	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To make agree, to bring to an agreement, to reconcile, to conciliate ; To make one agree, to bring to an agreement, to cause to conciliate ; 1. To make alright, to make harmonious. 2. To make peaceful ; To make harmonious ; Compare zlum
sdur	 verb-pres 	sdur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make comparison, to compare ; To cause to compare, to have discussions on  a subject ; 1. To mutually compare (good and bad, small and large). 2. To discuss, confer ; To compare ;
bsdur(d)	 verb-past 	sdur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make comparison, to compare ; To cause to compare, to have discussions on  a subject ; 1. To mutually compare (good and bad, small and large). 2. To discuss, confer ; To compare ;
bsdur	 verb-fut 	sdur	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To make comparison, to compare ; To cause to compare, to have discussions on  a subject ; 1. To mutually compare (good and bad, small and large). 2. To discuss, confer ; To compare ;
sdeb	 verb-pres 	sdeb	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To mingle, mix, to make unite, to conjoin, fasten together ; To combine, associate with, to join, fasten ; 1. To mix many different things together. 2. To keep company with, to accompany ; 1. To keep company with, to accompany. 2. To join, to arrange ;
bsdebs	 verb-past 	sdeb	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To mingle, mix, to make unite, to conjoin, fasten together ; To combine, associate with, to join, fasten ; 1. To mix many different things together. 2. To keep company with, to accompany ; 1. To keep company with, to accompany. 2. To join, to arrange ;
bsdeb	 verb-fut 	sdeb	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To mingle, mix, to make unite, to conjoin, fasten together ; To combine, associate with, to join, fasten ; 1. To mix many different things together. 2. To keep company with, to accompany ; 1. To keep company with, to accompany. 2. To join, to arrange ;
sdo	 verb-pres 	sdo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (used with ; To risk, swear, to value at, harm [sic] ; 1. To not avoid a danger. 2. To take another's wealth trough deception. 3.  To rival, compete ; 1. To exchange, risk for. 2. To rival, compare. 3. To speak, order ;
bsdos	 verb-past 	sdo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (used with ; To risk, swear, to value at, harm [sic] ; 1. To not avoid a danger. 2. To take another's wealth trough deception. 3.  To rival, compete ; 1. To exchange, risk for. 2. To rival, compare. 3. To speak, order ;
bsdo	 verb-fut 	sdo	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (used with ; To risk, swear, to value at, harm [sic] ; 1. To not avoid a danger. 2. To take another's wealth trough deception. 3.  To rival, compete ; 1. To exchange, risk for. 2. To rival, compare. 3. To speak, order ;
sdog	 verb-pres 	sdog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To roll up, to fold up. 2. To make ready ; 1. To make shorter. 2. To prepare ; 1. To draw together, roll up. 2. To prepare, get ready for ;
bsdogs	 verb-past 	sdog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To roll up, to fold up. 2. To make ready ; 1. To make shorter. 2. To prepare ; 1. To draw together, roll up. 2. To prepare, get ready for ;
bsdog	 verb-fut 	sdog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   1. To roll up, to fold up. 2. To make ready ; 1. To make shorter. 2. To prepare ; 1. To draw together, roll up. 2. To prepare, get ready for ;
sdong	 verb-pres 	sdong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (used with ; To accompany, to associate with ; 1. To accompany, associate with. 2. To be connected together. 3. To arise together ; To accompany, associate with, to become close, become friendly together ;
bsdongs	 verb-past 	sdong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (used with ; To accompany, to associate with ; 1. To accompany, associate with. 2. To be connected together. 3. To arise together ; To accompany, associate with, to become close, become friendly together ;
bsdong	 verb-fut 	sdong	Transitive:  Voluntary:   (used with ; To accompany, to associate with ; 1. To accompany, associate with. 2. To be connected together. 3. To arise together ; To accompany, associate with, to become close, become friendly together ;
sdod	 verb-pres 	sdod	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To sit. 2. To stay, to stop, to wait ; To stay, to settle down, to dwell, to live, to sit on ; 1. To halt, to stop moving. 2. To stay, remain. 3. To stay at a rank, in a position, to accept responsibility ; To sit, remain, exist ;
bsdad 	 verb-past 	sdod	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To sit. 2. To stay, to stop, to wait ; To stay, to settle down, to dwell, to live, to sit on ; 1. To halt, to stop moving. 2. To stay, remain. 3. To stay at a rank, in a position, to accept responsibility ; To sit, remain, exist ;
bsdad	 verb-fut 	sdod	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   1. To sit. 2. To stay, to stop, to wait ; To stay, to settle down, to dwell, to live, to sit on ; 1. To halt, to stop moving. 2. To stay, remain. 3. To stay at a rank, in a position, to accept responsibility ; To sit, remain, exist ;
sdom	 verb-pres 	sdom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To bind, fasten, tie up, to bind up. 2. To staunch, stop, cause to cease. 3. To make morally firm, to confirm. ; 1. To bind, to tie up ; To give up evil conduct, to close the doors of immorality, to bind with a law, to control one's talking, to protect ; 1. To gather many things together and tie them (with a rope &c.). 2. To tightly bind, constrain. 3. To tighten (e.g. rules &c.) ; 1. To tie, bind. 2. To impede, enclose ;
bsdams	 verb-past 	sdom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To bind, fasten, tie up, to bind up. 2. To staunch, stop, cause to cease. 3. To make morally firm, to confirm. ; 1. To bind, to tie up ; To give up evil conduct, to close the doors of immorality, to bind with a law, to control one's talking, to protect ; 1. To gather many things together and tie them (with a rope &c.). 2. To tightly bind, constrain. 3. To tighten (e.g. rules &c.) ; 1. To tie, bind. 2. To impede, enclose ;
bsdam	 verb-fut 	sdom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   1. To bind, fasten, tie up, to bind up. 2. To staunch, stop, cause to cease. 3. To make morally firm, to confirm. ; 1. To bind, to tie up ; To give up evil conduct, to close the doors of immorality, to bind with a law, to control one's talking, to protect ; 1. To gather many things together and tie them (with a rope &c.). 2. To tightly bind, constrain. 3. To tighten (e.g. rules &c.) ; 1. To tie, bind. 2. To impede, enclose ;
sdom	 verb-pres 	sdom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To add together, to cash, to sum ;To add up, combine ; To bring, gather together ; To gather ;
bsdoms	 verb-past 	sdom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To add together, to cash, to sum ;To add up, combine ; To bring, gather together ; To gather ;
bsdom	 verb-fut 	sdom	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To add together, to cash, to sum ;To add up, combine ; To bring, gather together ; To gather ;
brdab	 verb-pres 	brdab	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fold, place together ; To touch with force, to meet ; Very probably no different from rdeb
brdabs	 verb-past 	brdab	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fold, place together ; To touch with force, to meet ; Very probably no different from rdeb
brdab	 verb-fut 	brdab	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To fold, place together ; To touch with force, to meet ; Very probably no different from rdeb
brda'	 verb-pres 	brda'	   To collect, gather, make one repay ; Possibly an error for brnga'
brdas	 verb-past 	brda'	   To collect, gather, make one repay ; Possibly an error for brnga'
	 verb-fut 	brda'	   To collect, gather, make one repay ; Possibly an error for brnga'
brdeg	 verb-pres 	brdeg	   To eat ;
	 verb-past 	brdeg	   To eat ;
	 verb-fut 	brdeg	   To eat ;
na	 verb-pres 	na	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be ill, sick ; To become ill, to feel sick ; To become ill, sick ; To get sick ;
na	 verb-past 	na	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be ill, sick ; To become ill, to feel sick ; To become ill, sick ; To get sick ;
na	 verb-fut 	na	Intransitive:  Involuntary:   To be ill, sick ; To become ill, to feel sick ; To become ill, sick ; To get sick ;
mnab	 verb-pres 	nab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To put on clothes ; To wear, put on clothes, to dress, to help or serve to put on clothes ; (honorific) To wear, sport (hats, garments &c.) ; To wear ;
mnabs	 verb-past 	nab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To put on clothes ; To wear, put on clothes, to dress, to help or serve to put on clothes ; (honorific) To wear, sport (hats, garments &c.) ; To wear ;
mnab	 verb-fut 	nab	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To put on clothes ; To wear, put on clothes, to dress, to help or serve to put on clothes ; (honorific) To wear, sport (hats, garments &c.) ; To wear ;
nal	 verb-pres 	nal	Transitive:    For siblings to copulate, engage in sexual intercourse ;
nal	 verb-past 	nal	Transitive:    For siblings to copulate, engage in sexual intercourse ;
nal	 verb-fut 	nal	Transitive:    For siblings to copulate, engage in sexual intercourse ;
nu	 verb-pres 	nu	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To suck (Cs.), to suckle (Jä) ; To suck a nipple, be fed with mother's milk ; To suck at a breast ; To drink milk ;
nus	 verb-past 	nu	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To suck (Cs.), to suckle (Jä) ; To suck a nipple, be fed with mother's milk ; To suck at a breast ; To drink milk ;
nu	 verb-fut 	nu	Transitive:  Voluntary:   To suck (Cs.), to suckle (Jä) ; To suck a nipple, be fed with mother's milk ; To suck at a breast ; To drink milk ;
nud	 verb-pres 	nud	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To retreat, withdraw ; To alter what had previously remained ; To take as appropriate what is backwards ;
nud	 verb-past 	nud	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To retreat, withdraw ; To alter what had previously remained ; To take as appropriate what is backwards ;
nud	 verb-fut 	nud	Intransitive:  Voluntary:   To retreat, withdraw ; To alter what had previously remained ; To take as appropriate what is backwards ;
nub	 verb-pres 	nub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To go down, to set (of the sun and moon), to sink, collapse, decline ; To decline, merge, sink down ; 1. To go behind (a mountain &c.) and not be seen (of the sun, moon &c.). 2. To sink down into water. 3. To decline, deteriorate (of an evil tradition &c.) ; 1. To depart and become obscure (of the sun and moon &c.). 2. To sink into water. 3. To decline, deteriorate (of a tradition &c.) ;
nub	 verb-past 	nub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To go down, to set (of the sun and moon), to sink, collapse, decline ; To decline, merge, sink down ; 1. To go behind (a mountain &c.) and not be seen (of the sun, moon &c.). 2. To sink down into water. 3. To decline, deteriorate (of an evil tradition &c.) ; 1. To depart and become obscure (of the sun and moon &c.). 2. To sink into water. 3. To decline, deteriorate (of a tradition &c.) ;
nub	 verb-fut 	nub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To go down, to set (of the sun and moon), to sink, collapse, decline ; To decline, merge, sink down ; 1. To go behind (a mountain &c.) and not be seen (of the sun, moon &c.). 2. To sink down into water. 3. To decline, deteriorate (of an evil tradition &c.) ; 1. To depart and become obscure (of the sun and moon &c.). 2. To sink into water. 3. To decline, deteriorate (of a tradition &c.) ;
nur	 verb-pres 	nur	Intransitive:   1. To change place, change posture, to shift, to move by degrees, be displaced. 2. to be impressed, to yield, give way, be desiccated ; 1. To become shorter or longer in time. 2. To become powder ; 1. To raise in position from a previous place. 2. To alter, reverse a definite time. 3. To go, move with the surface of the stomach lowered to the ground ;
nur(d)	 verb-past 	nur	Intransitive:   1. To change place, change posture, to shift, to move by degrees, be displaced. 2. to be impressed, to yield, give way, be desiccated ; 1. To become shorter or longer in time. 2. To become powder ; 1. To raise in position from a previous place. 2. To alter, reverse a definite time. 3. To go, move with the surface of the stomach lowered to the ground ;
nur	 verb-fut 	nur	Intransitive:   1. To change place, change posture, to shift, to move by degrees, be displaced. 2. to be impressed, to yield, give way, be desiccated ; 1. To become shorter or longer in time. 2. To become powder ; 1. To raise in position from a previous place. 2. To alter, reverse a definite time. 3. To go, move with the surface of the stomach lowered to the ground ;
nus	 verb-pres 	nus	Transitive:  Involuntary: {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To be able to endure, bear ;
nus	 verb-past 	nus	Transitive:  Involuntary: {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To be able to endure, bear ;
nus	 verb-fut 	nus	Transitive:  Involuntary: {:tag :label, :attrs nil, :content ["Meaning: "]}; To be able to endure, bear ;
	 verb-pres 	nus	  
	 verb-past 	nus	  
	 verb-fut 	nus	  
nen	 verb-pres 	nen	  (in West) To take, lay hold of, seize; to take out, off, away; to hold (Jä) ; To take, to accept ;
nen(d)	 verb-past 	nen	  (in West) To take, lay hold of, seize; to take out, off, away; to hold (Jä) ; To take, to accept ;
nen	 verb-fut 	nen	  (in West) To take, lay hold of, seize; to take out, off, away; to hold (Jä) ; To take, to accept ;
nem	 verb-pres 	nem	  To be spongy, to be elastic, to cushion ;
nems	 verb-past 	nem	  To be spongy, to be elastic, to cushion ;
nem	 verb-fut 	nem	  To be spongy, to be elastic, to cushion ;
ner	 verb-pres 	ner	  To drop gradually, to lower itself, subside, sink ; To tumble down, to ruin ;
ner(d)	 verb-past 	ner	  To drop gradually, to lower itself, subside, sink ; To tumble down, to ruin ;
ner	 verb-fut 	ner	  To drop gradually, to lower itself, subside, sink ; To tumble down, to ruin ;
nog	 verb-pres 	nogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To become dirty, dull, be faded ; To clean, rub out, erase ; To be hit by a bad smell, to deteriorate in newness or luster ;
nogs	 verb-past 	nogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To become dirty, dull, be faded ; To clean, rub out, erase ; To be hit by a bad smell, to deteriorate in newness or luster ;
nog	 verb-fut 	nogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To become dirty, dull, be faded ; To clean, rub out, erase ; To be hit by a bad smell, to deteriorate in newness or luster ;
nong	 verb-pres 	nong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To grieve, upset, cause pain, ail ; 1. To regret, to be embarrassed. 2. To avoid, shy away from ; To regret, feel remorse ; Compare gnong
nongs	 verb-past 	nong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To grieve, upset, cause pain, ail ; 1. To regret, to be embarrassed. 2. To avoid, shy away from ; To regret, feel remorse ; Compare gnong
nongs	 verb-fut 	nong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To grieve, upset, cause pain, ail ; 1. To regret, to be embarrassed. 2. To avoid, shy away from ; To regret, feel remorse ; Compare gnong
	 verb-pres 		Intransitive:   (of royalty other than the Tibetan emperor) To die ;
nongs	 verb-past 		Intransitive:   (of royalty other than the Tibetan emperor) To die ;
	 verb-fut 		Intransitive:   (of royalty other than the Tibetan emperor) To die ;
nong	 verb-pres 	nongs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To commit a fault, to make a mistake, to commit one's self ; To commit an offense, to make mistakes ; To make a mistake ;
nongs	 verb-past 	nongs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To commit a fault, to make a mistake, to commit one's self ; To commit an offense, to make mistakes ; To make a mistake ;
nong	 verb-fut 	nongs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To commit a fault, to make a mistake, to commit one's self ; To commit an offense, to make mistakes ; To make a mistake ;
nod	 verb-pres 	nod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To keep, take, obtain, receive. 2. To receive instruction, directions, favors (from a superior especially priests) ; To make to receive or obtain, to give, to cause to obtain religious obligations ; To take, accept (oral instructions &c.) ; To take, accept ;
mnos	 verb-past 	nod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To keep, take, obtain, receive. 2. To receive instruction, directions, favors (from a superior especially priests) ; To make to receive or obtain, to give, to cause to obtain religious obligations ; To take, accept (oral instructions &c.) ; To take, accept ;
mno	 verb-fut 	nod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To keep, take, obtain, receive. 2. To receive instruction, directions, favors (from a superior especially priests) ; To make to receive or obtain, to give, to cause to obtain religious obligations ; To take, accept (oral instructions &c.) ; To take, accept ;
nod	 verb-pres 	nod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To receive, obtain, to obtain, accept religious instruction ; To find, obtain ;
mnos	 verb-past 	nod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To receive, obtain, to obtain, accept religious instruction ; To find, obtain ;
nod	 verb-fut 	nod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To receive, obtain, to obtain, accept religious instruction ; To find, obtain ;
non	 verb-pres 	non	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To mount. 2. (a less correct form of ; To be under control, to bring under control, to be subdued by a splendid manner, to be inebriated with great misery, to be deeply indebted ; 1. To be overcome, intimidated, daunted. 2. To desire, crave, be attached to ;
non(d)	 verb-past 	non	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To mount. 2. (a less correct form of ; To be under control, to bring under control, to be subdued by a splendid manner, to be inebriated with great misery, to be deeply indebted ; 1. To be overcome, intimidated, daunted. 2. To desire, crave, be attached to ;
non	 verb-fut 	non	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To mount. 2. (a less correct form of ; To be under control, to bring under control, to be subdued by a splendid manner, to be inebriated with great misery, to be deeply indebted ; 1. To be overcome, intimidated, daunted. 2. To desire, crave, be attached to ;
nom	 verb-pres 	nom	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To lay hold of (Sch.) ; To touch, contact ; To touch, contact, hold, grasp ; Compare mnam
noms	 verb-past 	nom	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To lay hold of (Sch.) ; To touch, contact ; To touch, contact, hold, grasp ; Compare mnam
nom	 verb-fut 	nom	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To lay hold of (Sch.) ; To touch, contact ; To touch, contact, hold, grasp ; Compare mnam
nom	 verb-pres 	nom	  To enjoy, partake of, be satisfied by ; To get satisfaction, to be satisfied, to be possible, to enjoy, to anoint ;
noms	 verb-past 	nom	  To enjoy, partake of, be satisfied by ; To get satisfaction, to be satisfied, to be possible, to enjoy, to anoint ;
nom	 verb-fut 	nom	  To enjoy, partake of, be satisfied by ; To get satisfaction, to be satisfied, to be possible, to enjoy, to anoint ;
nor	 verb-pres 	nor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To err, to make a mistake, to be in error ; To be mistaken, to be in error, to be confused ; To be confused, be mistaken ; To be confused, blunder, be mistaken ;
nor(d)	 verb-past 	nor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To err, to make a mistake, to be in error ; To be mistaken, to be in error, to be confused ; To be confused, be mistaken ; To be confused, blunder, be mistaken ;
nor	 verb-fut 	nor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To err, to make a mistake, to be in error ; To be mistaken, to be in error, to be confused ; To be confused, be mistaken ; To be confused, blunder, be mistaken ;
nol	 verb-pres 	nol	  To agree, to come to terms (Cs.) ; To be exchanged, to be adjusted by exchanging ; To stand at war, to struggle ;
nol(d)	 verb-past 	nol	  To agree, to come to terms (Cs.) ; To be exchanged, to be adjusted by exchanging ; To stand at war, to struggle ;
nol	 verb-fut 	nol	  To agree, to come to terms (Cs.) ; To be exchanged, to be adjusted by exchanging ; To stand at war, to struggle ;
gnang	 verb-pres 	gnang	Transitive:  Voluntary:  (humble) To give, grant ; To do, give, grant, permit ; 1. (honorific) To give. 2. (honorific) To do (work, actions &c.) ;
gnang	 verb-past 	gnang	Transitive:  Voluntary:  (humble) To give, grant ; To do, give, grant, permit ; 1. (honorific) To give. 2. (honorific) To do (work, actions &c.) ;
gnang	 verb-fut 	gnang	Transitive:  Voluntary:  (humble) To give, grant ; To do, give, grant, permit ; 1. (honorific) To give. 2. (honorific) To do (work, actions &c.) ;
gnas	 verb-pres 	gnas	Intransitive:   1. To sit, to be placed, to exist, to be in force, to continue, exist. 2. To reside, dwell, stay. 3. To remain, continue, adhere ; To sit, situate, to have, to rest, value ; 1. To sit, stay, live. 2. For things to exist in a place and time continuously between their appearance and destruction ; To sit, exist, maintain, stay ;
gnas	 verb-past 	gnas	Intransitive:   1. To sit, to be placed, to exist, to be in force, to continue, exist. 2. To reside, dwell, stay. 3. To remain, continue, adhere ; To sit, situate, to have, to rest, value ; 1. To sit, stay, live. 2. For things to exist in a place and time continuously between their appearance and destruction ; To sit, exist, maintain, stay ;
gnas	 verb-fut 	gnas	Intransitive:   1. To sit, to be placed, to exist, to be in force, to continue, exist. 2. To reside, dwell, stay. 3. To remain, continue, adhere ; To sit, situate, to have, to rest, value ; 1. To sit, stay, live. 2. For things to exist in a place and time continuously between their appearance and destruction ; To sit, exist, maintain, stay ;
gnong	 verb-pres 	gnong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To feel ashamed ; To have qualms, compunctions ; To be ashamed, embarrassed because of sins and wrongdoings ; Compare nong
gnongs	 verb-past 	gnong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To feel ashamed ; To have qualms, compunctions ; To be ashamed, embarrassed because of sins and wrongdoings ; Compare nong
gnong	 verb-fut 	gnong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To feel ashamed ; To have qualms, compunctions ; To be ashamed, embarrassed because of sins and wrongdoings ; Compare nong
gnod	 verb-pres 	gnod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To injure, to cause illness ; To harm, to bring evil ; 1. To bring someone a loss. 2. To deteriorate in love and affection ; To not be happy, to cause adverse conditions ; Compare snad
gnod	 verb-past 	gnod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To injure, to cause illness ; To harm, to bring evil ; 1. To bring someone a loss. 2. To deteriorate in love and affection ; To not be happy, to cause adverse conditions ; Compare snad
gnod	 verb-fut 	gnod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To injure, to cause illness ; To harm, to bring evil ; 1. To bring someone a loss. 2. To deteriorate in love and affection ; To not be happy, to cause adverse conditions ; Compare snad
gnon	 verb-pres 	gnon	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To press, compress, force down, subdue, suppress, to keep down ; To suppress, press down, to tread on, subdue, control over ; 1. To put greater weight on top of. 2. To defeat. 3. To weaken, annihilate ; For a downward force from above to press, squeeze, to make not move, to defeat, subdue ;
mnan	 verb-past 	gnon	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To press, compress, force down, subdue, suppress, to keep down ; To suppress, press down, to tread on, subdue, control over ; 1. To put greater weight on top of. 2. To defeat. 3. To weaken, annihilate ; For a downward force from above to press, squeeze, to make not move, to defeat, subdue ;
gnan	 verb-fut 	gnon	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To press, compress, force down, subdue, suppress, to keep down ; To suppress, press down, to tread on, subdue, control over ; 1. To put greater weight on top of. 2. To defeat. 3. To weaken, annihilate ; For a downward force from above to press, squeeze, to make not move, to defeat, subdue ;
mnag	 verb-pres 	mnag	Intransitive:   To endure, suffer, tolerate, bear ; Compare rnog
mnags	 verb-past 	mnag	Intransitive:   To endure, suffer, tolerate, bear ; Compare rnog
mnag	 verb-fut 	mnag	Intransitive:   To endure, suffer, tolerate, bear ; Compare rnog
mnang	 verb-pres 	mnang	  To satisfy, to be satisfied, to be possible ;
mnangs	 verb-past 	mnang	  To satisfy, to be satisfied, to be possible ;
mnang	 verb-fut 	mnang	  To satisfy, to be satisfied, to be possible ;
nom	 verb-pres 	mnam	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To smell. 2. To smell of ; To smell, to inhale odor ; To smell, to stink. 2. To experience in the nose ; Compare nom
mnams	 verb-past 	mnam	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To smell. 2. To smell of ; To smell, to inhale odor ; To smell, to stink. 2. To experience in the nose ; Compare nom
mnam	 verb-fut 	mnam	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To smell. 2. To smell of ; To smell, to inhale odor ; To smell, to stink. 2. To experience in the nose ; Compare nom
mnar	 verb-pres 	mnar	Transitive:  Involuntary:  To suffer, to be tormented ; To torment, torture, afflict, harm, suffer ; 1. To experience suffering, to perform an action which causes suffering to another. 2. To hinder, interfere with the growth of ;
mnar(d)	 verb-past 	mnar	Transitive:  Involuntary:  To suffer, to be tormented ; To torment, torture, afflict, harm, suffer ; 1. To experience suffering, to perform an action which causes suffering to another. 2. To hinder, interfere with the growth of ;
mnar	 verb-fut 	mnar	Transitive:  Involuntary:  To suffer, to be tormented ; To torment, torture, afflict, harm, suffer ; 1. To experience suffering, to perform an action which causes suffering to another. 2. To hinder, interfere with the growth of ;
mnal	 verb-pres 	mnal	Intransitive: Voluntary:  (honorific) To sleep ; To sleep, to go to sleep, to fall asleep, to die ; To go to bed, lay down ; 1. (honorific) 1. To go to bed, lay down. 2. (honorific) To fall asleep ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC"]}
mnal(d)	 verb-past 	mnal	Intransitive: Voluntary:  (honorific) To sleep ; To sleep, to go to sleep, to fall asleep, to die ; To go to bed, lay down ; 1. (honorific) 1. To go to bed, lay down. 2. (honorific) To fall asleep ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC"]}
mnal	 verb-fut 	mnal	Intransitive: Voluntary:  (honorific) To sleep ; To sleep, to go to sleep, to fall asleep, to die ; To go to bed, lay down ; 1. (honorific) 1. To go to bed, lay down. 2. (honorific) To fall asleep ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["TC"]}
mno	 verb-pres 	mno	 Voluntary:  (archaic) To think over, ponder, imagine ; To think, consider, cogitate ;
mnos	 verb-past 	mno	 Voluntary:  (archaic) To think over, ponder, imagine ; To think, consider, cogitate ;
mno	 verb-fut 	mno	 Voluntary:  (archaic) To think over, ponder, imagine ; To think, consider, cogitate ;
mnol	 verb-pres 	mnol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To grow feeble, to be reduced, weakened ; To become impure, to be polluted, to defile, to become filthy, unclean, to pile up ;  For something dirty to get on the body, to catch an infectious disease ; To be defiled, infected ;
mnol(d)	 verb-past 	mnol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To grow feeble, to be reduced, weakened ; To become impure, to be polluted, to defile, to become filthy, unclean, to pile up ;  For something dirty to get on the body, to catch an infectious disease ; To be defiled, infected ;
mnol	 verb-fut 	mnol	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To grow feeble, to be reduced, weakened ; To become impure, to be polluted, to defile, to become filthy, unclean, to pile up ;  For something dirty to get on the body, to catch an infectious disease ; To be defiled, infected ;
rnag	 verb-pres 	rnag	Intransitive:   To form pus, to ulcerate (Cs.) ; To become pussy (of a wound, swelling &c.) ;
rnag	 verb-past 	rnag	Intransitive:   To form pus, to ulcerate (Cs.) ; To become pussy (of a wound, swelling &c.) ;
rnag	 verb-fut 	rnag	Intransitive:   To form pus, to ulcerate (Cs.) ; To become pussy (of a wound, swelling &c.) ;
brnab	 verb-pres 	rnab	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To have desire of gaining of other wealth [sic], to covet ; To be covetous, greedy ; To want to obtain with mental craving, to want the belongings of others ;
brnabs	 verb-past 	rnab	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To have desire of gaining of other wealth [sic], to covet ; To be covetous, greedy ; To want to obtain with mental craving, to want the belongings of others ;
brnab	 verb-fut 	rnab	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To have desire of gaining of other wealth [sic], to covet ; To be covetous, greedy ; To want to obtain with mental craving, to want the belongings of others ;
rnal	 verb-pres 	rnal	Intransitive:   To not be anxious, not be nervous ; Compare mnal
rnal	 verb-past 	rnal	Intransitive:   To not be anxious, not be nervous ; Compare mnal
rnal	 verb-fut 	rnal	Intransitive:   To not be anxious, not be nervous ; Compare mnal
rnur	 verb-pres 	rnur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To pull forward, out of the way ; To pull away, to draw, to pull backward, pull forward ; (archaic) To pull forward ; Compare snur
brnur(d)	 verb-past 	rnur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To pull forward, out of the way ; To pull away, to draw, to pull backward, pull forward ; (archaic) To pull forward ; Compare snur
brnur	 verb-fut 	rnur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To pull forward, out of the way ; To pull away, to draw, to pull backward, pull forward ; (archaic) To pull forward ; Compare snur
rnog	 verb-pres 	rnog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To conceal, to hide ; To make what had been previously apparent no longer evident ; To hide, make secret ;
brnogs	 verb-past 	rnog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To conceal, to hide ; To make what had been previously apparent no longer evident ; To hide, make secret ;
brnog	 verb-fut 	rnog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To conceal, to hide ; To make what had been previously apparent no longer evident ; To hide, make secret ;
rnog	 verb-pres 	rnog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To tolerate, bear, endure ; 1. To remember, to think. 2. To tolerate, bear, endure ; Compare mnag
brnags	 verb-past 	rnog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To tolerate, bear, endure ; 1. To remember, to think. 2. To tolerate, bear, endure ; Compare mnag
brnag	 verb-fut 	rnog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To tolerate, bear, endure ; 1. To remember, to think. 2. To tolerate, bear, endure ; Compare mnag
rnong	 verb-pres 	rnong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To become choked, be stifled, grow constricted ; To block (as gullet is blocked with) ; To try to become free of a piece of swallowed food ;
brnangs	 verb-past 	rnong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To become choked, be stifled, grow constricted ; To block (as gullet is blocked with) ; To try to become free of a piece of swallowed food ;
brnang	 verb-fut 	rnong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To become choked, be stifled, grow constricted ; To block (as gullet is blocked with) ; To try to become free of a piece of swallowed food ;
rnan	 verb-pres 	rnon	Transitive:  Voluntary: To be eager for, to be on the alert, to be attentive to ; To pay special attention, cause to be eager, to take special care of ; To take as important with attention ; To differentiate with precision, hold as most important ;
brnan(d)	 verb-past 	rnon	Transitive:  Voluntary: To be eager for, to be on the alert, to be attentive to ; To pay special attention, cause to be eager, to take special care of ; To take as important with attention ; To differentiate with precision, hold as most important ;
brnan	 verb-fut 	rnon	Transitive:  Voluntary: To be eager for, to be on the alert, to be attentive to ; To pay special attention, cause to be eager, to take special care of ; To take as important with attention ; To differentiate with precision, hold as most important ;
snang	 verb-pres 	snang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To emit light, to shine, be bright. 2. To be seen, perceived, to show one's self, to appear ; To be visible, to come in view of, to appear, to come into sight ; To become an object of the mind or sense organs ; 1. To shine, rise, be clear, distinct, visible. 2. To exist, remain ;
snang	 verb-past 	snang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To emit light, to shine, be bright. 2. To be seen, perceived, to show one's self, to appear ; To be visible, to come in view of, to appear, to come into sight ; To become an object of the mind or sense organs ; 1. To shine, rise, be clear, distinct, visible. 2. To exist, remain ;
snang	 verb-fut 	snang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To emit light, to shine, be bright. 2. To be seen, perceived, to show one's self, to appear ; To be visible, to come in view of, to appear, to come into sight ; To become an object of the mind or sense organs ; 1. To shine, rise, be clear, distinct, visible. 2. To exist, remain ;
snad	 verb-pres 	snad	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To wound, to hurt, to stab ; To hurt, injure, damage ; To injure, wound  ; To be wounded, damaged ; Compare gnod
bsnad	 verb-past 	snad	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To wound, to hurt, to stab ; To hurt, injure, damage ; To injure, wound  ; To be wounded, damaged ; Compare gnod
bsnad	 verb-fut 	snad	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To wound, to hurt, to stab ; To hurt, injure, damage ; To injure, wound  ; To be wounded, damaged ; Compare gnod
snar	 verb-pres 	snar	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To shake, move to and fro. 2. To extend, protract ; To stretch, extend, to stretch out one's tail ; To hang down, dangle down ; To make longer ;
bsnar(d)	 verb-past 	snar	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To shake, move to and fro. 2. To extend, protract ; To stretch, extend, to stretch out one's tail ; To hang down, dangle down ; To make longer ;
bsnar	 verb-fut 	snar	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. To shake, move to and fro. 2. To extend, protract ; To stretch, extend, to stretch out one's tail ; To hang down, dangle down ; To make longer ;
snal	 verb-pres 	snal	  1. To extend, protract. 2. To spin out, to protract (Cs.) ; To spin out, to protract ;
bsnal(d)	 verb-past 	snal	  1. To extend, protract. 2. To spin out, to protract (Cs.) ; To spin out, to protract ;
bsnal	 verb-fut 	snal	  1. To extend, protract. 2. To spin out, to protract (Cs.) ; To spin out, to protract ;
snud	 verb-pres 	snud	Transitive: Voluntary:  To push out, drive out ;
bsnud	 verb-past 	snud	Transitive: Voluntary:  To push out, drive out ;
bsnud	 verb-fut 	snud	Transitive: Voluntary:  To push out, drive out ;
snun	 verb-pres 	snun	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To prick into (e.g. a stick into the ground), to thrust a weapon. 2. To suckle. 3. To multiply ; 1. To feed with milk, to give suck, to suckle. 2. To hit, to catch a main point ; To give a breast to drink from. 2. To insert a weapon ; 1. To give, give to drink. 2. To strike, hit ;
bsnun(d)	 verb-past 	snun	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To prick into (e.g. a stick into the ground), to thrust a weapon. 2. To suckle. 3. To multiply ; 1. To feed with milk, to give suck, to suckle. 2. To hit, to catch a main point ; To give a breast to drink from. 2. To insert a weapon ; 1. To give, give to drink. 2. To strike, hit ;
bsnun	 verb-fut 	snun	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To prick into (e.g. a stick into the ground), to thrust a weapon. 2. To suckle. 3. To multiply ; 1. To feed with milk, to give suck, to suckle. 2. To hit, to catch a main point ; To give a breast to drink from. 2. To insert a weapon ; 1. To give, give to drink. 2. To strike, hit ;
snub	 verb-pres 	snub	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To do away with, to cause to perish, suppress, abrogate, annul, destroy, annihilate ; To abolish, to put an end to, to do away with ; 1. To annihilate. 2. To make something sink into water ; To annihilate, cause to sink ;
bsnubs	 verb-past 	snub	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To do away with, to cause to perish, suppress, abrogate, annul, destroy, annihilate ; To abolish, to put an end to, to do away with ; 1. To annihilate. 2. To make something sink into water ; To annihilate, cause to sink ;
bsnub	 verb-fut 	snub	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To do away with, to cause to perish, suppress, abrogate, annul, destroy, annihilate ; To abolish, to put an end to, to do away with ; 1. To annihilate. 2. To make something sink into water ; To annihilate, cause to sink ;
snur	 verb-pres 	snur	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. (in West) To push, move, move out of its place, remove, shift, drag up, pull in. 2. To cut into pieces, fracture, crush (Sch.). 3. To abridge ; 1. To change a time as to quicken or postpone. 2. To pull, to draw. 3. To crush as to make powder ; 1. To change a particular time. 2. To change the place of something. 3. To grind, pulverize something solid together with water to make it like mud ;  1. To draw, pull. 2. To draw nigh, hasten. 3. To pulverize, grind finely ; Compare rnur
bsnur(d)	 verb-past 	snur	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. (in West) To push, move, move out of its place, remove, shift, drag up, pull in. 2. To cut into pieces, fracture, crush (Sch.). 3. To abridge ; 1. To change a time as to quicken or postpone. 2. To pull, to draw. 3. To crush as to make powder ; 1. To change a particular time. 2. To change the place of something. 3. To grind, pulverize something solid together with water to make it like mud ;  1. To draw, pull. 2. To draw nigh, hasten. 3. To pulverize, grind finely ; Compare rnur
bsnur	 verb-fut 	snur	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. (in West) To push, move, move out of its place, remove, shift, drag up, pull in. 2. To cut into pieces, fracture, crush (Sch.). 3. To abridge ; 1. To change a time as to quicken or postpone. 2. To pull, to draw. 3. To crush as to make powder ; 1. To change a particular time. 2. To change the place of something. 3. To grind, pulverize something solid together with water to make it like mud ;  1. To draw, pull. 2. To draw nigh, hasten. 3. To pulverize, grind finely ; Compare rnur
snem	 verb-pres 	snem	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To shake, to cause to move slightly ; To press, to suppress, to press in between, to cave in, subdue ; To moisten a little bit ; To push down on, suppress, subdue ;
bsnems	 verb-past 	snem	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To shake, to cause to move slightly ; To press, to suppress, to press in between, to cave in, subdue ; To moisten a little bit ; To push down on, suppress, subdue ;
bsnem	 verb-fut 	snem	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To shake, to cause to move slightly ; To press, to suppress, to press in between, to cave in, subdue ; To moisten a little bit ; To push down on, suppress, subdue ;
sno	 verb-pres 	sno	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To reduce to small pieces, to crumble (Jä) ; To knead, make dough, to rub, mix thoroughly up ; To press, stuff, pack down again and again in order to mix pure water in mud, gruel &c. ; To sift, agitate, knead, shake ;
bsnos	 verb-past 	sno	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To reduce to small pieces, to crumble (Jä) ; To knead, make dough, to rub, mix thoroughly up ; To press, stuff, pack down again and again in order to mix pure water in mud, gruel &c. ; To sift, agitate, knead, shake ;
bsno	 verb-fut 	sno	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To reduce to small pieces, to crumble (Jä) ; To knead, make dough, to rub, mix thoroughly up ; To press, stuff, pack down again and again in order to mix pure water in mud, gruel &c. ; To sift, agitate, knead, shake ;
snog	 verb-pres 	snog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To mix up an order, mix up high and low ; To mix, mingle high and low ;
bsnogs	 verb-past 	snog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To mix up an order, mix up high and low ; To mix, mingle high and low ;
bsnog	 verb-fut 	snog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To mix up an order, mix up high and low ; To mix, mingle high and low ;
snon	 verb-pres 	snon	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To add on, expand, augment. 2. To put a tip or a point to (e.g. an arrow) ; To supplement, to make additions, to add up for completion ; 1. To make the number of things larger. 2. To add two numbers together ; To stack, pile, accumulate, add to ;
bsnan(d)	 verb-past 	snon	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To add on, expand, augment. 2. To put a tip or a point to (e.g. an arrow) ; To supplement, to make additions, to add up for completion ; 1. To make the number of things larger. 2. To add two numbers together ; To stack, pile, accumulate, add to ;
bsnan	 verb-fut 	snon	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To add on, expand, augment. 2. To put a tip or a point to (e.g. an arrow) ; To supplement, to make additions, to add up for completion ; 1. To make the number of things larger. 2. To add two numbers together ; To stack, pile, accumulate, add to ;
snom	 verb-pres 	snom	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To lay hold of, grasp, take up, to seize on ; To hold in hand, to carry ; (honorific) To take in hand ; (honorific) To carry, take hold of, take up ;
bsnams	 verb-past 	snom	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To lay hold of, grasp, take up, to seize on ; To hold in hand, to carry ; (honorific) To take in hand ; (honorific) To carry, take hold of, take up ;
bsnam	 verb-fut 	snom	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To lay hold of, grasp, take up, to seize on ; To hold in hand, to carry ; (honorific) To take in hand ; (honorific) To carry, take hold of, take up ;
snom	 verb-pres 	snom	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To smell ; To smell, to have smell ; To experience a smell with the nose ; To have the sensation of smell with the nostrils ;
bsnams	 verb-past 	snom	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To smell ; To smell, to have smell ; To experience a smell with the nose ; To have the sensation of smell with the nostrils ;
bsnam	 verb-fut 	snom	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To smell ; To smell, to have smell ; To experience a smell with the nose ; To have the sensation of smell with the nostrils ;
snor	 verb-pres 	snor	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To confound, intermingle, stir up sediment ; To confound, disturb an orderly plan ; To disturb an order, cause to make a mistake ;
bsnor(d)	 verb-past 	snor	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To confound, intermingle, stir up sediment ; To confound, disturb an orderly plan ; To disturb an order, cause to make a mistake ;
bsnor	 verb-fut 	snor	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To confound, intermingle, stir up sediment ; To confound, disturb an orderly plan ; To disturb an order, cause to make a mistake ;
snol	 verb-pres 	snol	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To adjust, place together, fit together, to close up exactly, interlace ; To exchange, adjust ; To mutually pile, arrange, place at the edge, tip &c. of something ;  To mutually join, pile unevenly ;
bsnol(d)	 verb-past 	snol	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To adjust, place together, fit together, to close up exactly, interlace ; To exchange, adjust ; To mutually pile, arrange, place at the edge, tip &c. of something ;  To mutually join, pile unevenly ;
bsnol	 verb-fut 	snol	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To adjust, place together, fit together, to close up exactly, interlace ; To exchange, adjust ; To mutually pile, arrange, place at the edge, tip &c. of something ;  To mutually join, pile unevenly ;
brnag	 verb-pres 	brnag	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To cogitate, deliberate, reflect upon. 2. To be concerned about, to strive after. 3. To flow over with, be replete with. 4. To be burdened mentally as well as physically ; To bear, endure, to cogitate, to keep in mind, to reflect on ; To think about with an angry mind ;
brnags	 verb-past 	brnag	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To cogitate, deliberate, reflect upon. 2. To be concerned about, to strive after. 3. To flow over with, be replete with. 4. To be burdened mentally as well as physically ; To bear, endure, to cogitate, to keep in mind, to reflect on ; To think about with an angry mind ;
brnag	 verb-fut 	brnag	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To cogitate, deliberate, reflect upon. 2. To be concerned about, to strive after. 3. To flow over with, be replete with. 4. To be burdened mentally as well as physically ; To bear, endure, to cogitate, to keep in mind, to reflect on ; To think about with an angry mind ;
bsnom	 verb-pres 	bsnom	  (apparently in two passages met with to be differentiated from ;
	 verb-past 	bsnom	  (apparently in two passages met with to be differentiated from ;
	 verb-fut 	bsnom	  (apparently in two passages met with to be differentiated from ;
dpa'	 verb-pres 	dpa'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To determine, to have confidence, to brave ; To have confidence, be certain ;
dpa'	 verb-past 	dpa'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To determine, to have confidence, to brave ; To have confidence, be certain ;
dpa'	 verb-fut 	dpa'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To determine, to have confidence, to brave ; To have confidence, be certain ;
dpar	 verb-pres 	dpar	Transitive:   To dictate (Cs.) ; 1. To leave a trace. 2. To print, publish a book ;
dpar(d)	 verb-past 	dpar	Transitive:   To dictate (Cs.) ; 1. To leave a trace. 2. To print, publish a book ;
dpar	 verb-fut 	dpar	Transitive:   To dictate (Cs.) ; 1. To leave a trace. 2. To print, publish a book ;
dpen	 verb-pres 	dpen	  
dpen(d)	 verb-past 	dpen	  
dpen	 verb-fut 	dpen	  
dpog	 verb-pres 	dpog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To measure, to apportion, to fix ; To estimate, to ascertain, to confirm ; 1. To asses, establish a fact which is not know having established the causes for its outward signs which are known. 2. To analyze, investigate ; To measure, asses, investigate a hidden phenomenon ;
dpags	 verb-past 	dpog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To measure, to apportion, to fix ; To estimate, to ascertain, to confirm ; 1. To asses, establish a fact which is not know having established the causes for its outward signs which are known. 2. To analyze, investigate ; To measure, asses, investigate a hidden phenomenon ;
dpag	 verb-fut 	dpog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To measure, to apportion, to fix ; To estimate, to ascertain, to confirm ; 1. To asses, establish a fact which is not know having established the causes for its outward signs which are known. 2. To analyze, investigate ; To measure, asses, investigate a hidden phenomenon ;
dpod	 verb-pres 	dpod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To dictate, give dictation ; To give dictation ;
dpod	 verb-past 	dpod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To dictate, give dictation ; To give dictation ;
dpod	 verb-fut 	dpod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To dictate, give dictation ; To give dictation ;
dpya	 verb-pres 	dpya	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To blame, censure, chide ; To criticize, reprove ; To tell someone's faults, to insult, put down ; Compare 'phya
dpyas	 verb-past 	dpya	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To blame, censure, chide ; To criticize, reprove ; To tell someone's faults, to insult, put down ; Compare 'phya
dpya	 verb-fut 	dpya	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To blame, censure, chide ; To criticize, reprove ; To tell someone's faults, to insult, put down ; Compare 'phya
dpyo	 verb-pres 	dpyo	  To change (Sch.) ;
	 verb-past 	dpyo	  To change (Sch.) ;
	 verb-fut 	dpyo	  To change (Sch.) ;
dpyong	 verb-pres 	dpyong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To dangle, to let down, to make hang down ; To hang down, to dangle, to hang, to swing loosely ; To make something hang down by sticking it on a stake, peg &c. ; To make hand down ;
dpyangs	 verb-past 	dpyong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To dangle, to let down, to make hang down ; To hang down, to dangle, to hang, to swing loosely ; To make something hang down by sticking it on a stake, peg &c. ; To make hand down ;
dpyang	 verb-fut 	dpyong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To dangle, to let down, to make hang down ; To hang down, to dangle, to hang, to swing loosely ; To make something hang down by sticking it on a stake, peg &c. ; To make hand down ;
dpyod	 verb-pres 	dpyod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To investigate, to examine into, to test by reasoning ; To examine, understand ; To evaluate meticulously, to examine carefully ;
dpyad	 verb-past 	dpyod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To investigate, to examine into, to test by reasoning ; To examine, understand ; To evaluate meticulously, to examine carefully ;
dpyad	 verb-fut 	dpyod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To investigate, to examine into, to test by reasoning ; To examine, understand ; To evaluate meticulously, to examine carefully ;
dprul	 verb-pres 	dprul	Transitive:   1. To make something verb spherical less spherical. 2. (archaic) To scratch an itch. 3. (archaic) To ornament with an ornament ;
dprul	 verb-past 	dprul	Transitive:   1. To make something verb spherical less spherical. 2. (archaic) To scratch an itch. 3. (archaic) To ornament with an ornament ;
dprul	 verb-fut 	dprul	Transitive:   1. To make something verb spherical less spherical. 2. (archaic) To scratch an itch. 3. (archaic) To ornament with an ornament ;
dpre	 verb-pres 	dpre	  (archaic) To roll up, turn up ;
dpres	 verb-past 	dpre	  (archaic) To roll up, turn up ;
dpre	 verb-fut 	dpre	  (archaic) To roll up, turn up ;
spa	 verb-pres 	spa	Transitive:  Involuntary:  To put on ornaments, to beautify, to put on, to wear ; (archaic) To ornament, bedeck ; To adorn, decorate, ornament ; Compare spras
spas	 verb-past 	spa	Transitive:  Involuntary:  To put on ornaments, to beautify, to put on, to wear ; (archaic) To ornament, bedeck ; To adorn, decorate, ornament ; Compare spras
spa	 verb-fut 	spa	Transitive:  Involuntary:  To put on ornaments, to beautify, to put on, to wear ; (archaic) To ornament, bedeck ; To adorn, decorate, ornament ; Compare spras
spag	 verb-pres 	spag	Intransitive:   1. To sop up with meal or bread, to soak up gravy (Jä). 2. To accumulate ; To shift, transfer one's self ; To mix, to dip in, to dip a bread into soup or vegetable ; To become swollen, blotted ;
spags	 verb-past 	spag	Intransitive:   1. To sop up with meal or bread, to soak up gravy (Jä). 2. To accumulate ; To shift, transfer one's self ; To mix, to dip in, to dip a bread into soup or vegetable ; To become swollen, blotted ;
spag	 verb-fut 	spag	Intransitive:   1. To sop up with meal or bread, to soak up gravy (Jä). 2. To accumulate ; To shift, transfer one's self ; To mix, to dip in, to dip a bread into soup or vegetable ; To become swollen, blotted ;
spam	 verb-pres 	spam	Transitive:   To subdue, defeat, win ;
spam	 verb-past 	spam	Transitive:   To subdue, defeat, win ;
spam	 verb-fut 	spam	Transitive:   To subdue, defeat, win ;
spug	 verb-pres 	spug	 Voluntary:   To reverse, turn up side down ;
spugs	 verb-past 	spug	 Voluntary:   To reverse, turn up side down ;
spug	 verb-fut 	spug	 Voluntary:   To reverse, turn up side down ;
spungs	 verb-pres 	spung	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To heap, accumulate, pile up. 2. To fill up ; To accumulate, to heap, to pile up ; For many things to be gathered together into a pile ; To accumulate, gather in one place ;
spungs	 verb-past 	spung	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To heap, accumulate, pile up. 2. To fill up ; To accumulate, to heap, to pile up ; For many things to be gathered together into a pile ; To accumulate, gather in one place ;
spungs	 verb-fut 	spung	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To heap, accumulate, pile up. 2. To fill up ; To accumulate, to heap, to pile up ; For many things to be gathered together into a pile ; To accumulate, gather in one place ;
spud	 verb-pres 	spud	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To put on, wear, to put on ornaments ; (archaic) To decorate, ornament, bedeck ; To wear, put on ornaments ;
spud	 verb-past 	spud	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To put on, wear, to put on ornaments ; (archaic) To decorate, ornament, bedeck ; To wear, put on ornaments ;
spud	 verb-fut 	spud	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To put on, wear, to put on ornaments ; (archaic) To decorate, ornament, bedeck ; To wear, put on ornaments ;
spub	 verb-pres 	spub	  To reverse, to turn upside down ; To turn upside down, to reverse upside down ; (dialect) To turn down the rim of a vessel ;
spubs	 verb-past 	spub	  To reverse, to turn upside down ; To turn upside down, to reverse upside down ; (dialect) To turn down the rim of a vessel ;
spub	 verb-fut 	spub	  To reverse, to turn upside down ; To turn upside down, to reverse upside down ; (dialect) To turn down the rim of a vessel ;
spur	 verb-pres 	spur	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To make fly, to scare up, to let fly ; To cause to fly, to make fly ; To make fly (a bird &c.) ; 1. To make fly. 2. To give, send off ;
spur(d)	 verb-past 	spur	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To make fly, to scare up, to let fly ; To cause to fly, to make fly ; To make fly (a bird &c.) ; 1. To make fly. 2. To give, send off ;
spur	 verb-fut 	spur	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To make fly, to scare up, to let fly ; To cause to fly, to make fly ; To make fly (a bird &c.) ; 1. To make fly. 2. To give, send off ;
spel	 verb-pres 	spel	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To augment, to increase. 2. To diffuse. 3. To multiply (arithmetic) (Rtsii). 4. To conjoin, unite together, compose ; 1. To make larger, more plentiful. 2. To know many people. 3. (mathematics) To multiply 4. To mutually compound, combine ; 1. To increase, make larger. 2. To connect, join, combine, mix ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Denwood 1991: 136) ."]}
spel(d)	 verb-past 	spel	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To augment, to increase. 2. To diffuse. 3. To multiply (arithmetic) (Rtsii). 4. To conjoin, unite together, compose ; 1. To make larger, more plentiful. 2. To know many people. 3. (mathematics) To multiply 4. To mutually compound, combine ; 1. To increase, make larger. 2. To connect, join, combine, mix ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Denwood 1991: 136) ."]}
spel	 verb-fut 	spel	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To augment, to increase. 2. To diffuse. 3. To multiply (arithmetic) (Rtsii). 4. To conjoin, unite together, compose ; 1. To make larger, more plentiful. 2. To know many people. 3. (mathematics) To multiply 4. To mutually compound, combine ; 1. To increase, make larger. 2. To connect, join, combine, mix ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Denwood 1991: 136) ."]}
spo	 verb-pres 	spo	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To alter, change ; To change, transfer, shift, to apply some illustration or reasons, to prove some other facts in some manner, to step ; 1. To move by taking steps. 2. To raise the location of something ; 1. To change, transform. 2. To classify ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
spos	 verb-past 	spo	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To alter, change ; To change, transfer, shift, to apply some illustration or reasons, to prove some other facts in some manner, to step ; 1. To move by taking steps. 2. To raise the location of something ; 1. To change, transform. 2. To classify ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
spo	 verb-fut 	spo	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To alter, change ; To change, transfer, shift, to apply some illustration or reasons, to prove some other facts in some manner, to step ; 1. To move by taking steps. 2. To raise the location of something ; 1. To change, transform. 2. To classify ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
spog	 verb-pres 	spog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To carry elsewhere, remove ; To cause to rise up, to jump up, to cause to become superior, to promote, to send, to cause to move ; To raise from a low level to a high level ; 1. To mix, combine. 2. To raise, move to another place ;
spags	 verb-past 	spog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To carry elsewhere, remove ; To cause to rise up, to jump up, to cause to become superior, to promote, to send, to cause to move ; To raise from a low level to a high level ; 1. To mix, combine. 2. To raise, move to another place ;
spag	 verb-fut 	spog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To carry elsewhere, remove ; To cause to rise up, to jump up, to cause to become superior, to promote, to send, to cause to move ; To raise from a low level to a high level ; 1. To mix, combine. 2. To raise, move to another place ;
spong	 verb-pres 	spong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To abandon, renounce, leave, deliver up, reject, throw out ; To give up, abandon, to renounce, to practice ; To get rid of, hide away. 2. To separate, break a connection ; To clear away, get rid of ;
spangs	 verb-past 	spong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To abandon, renounce, leave, deliver up, reject, throw out ; To give up, abandon, to renounce, to practice ; To get rid of, hide away. 2. To separate, break a connection ; To clear away, get rid of ;
spang	 verb-fut 	spong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To abandon, renounce, leave, deliver up, reject, throw out ; To give up, abandon, to renounce, to practice ; To get rid of, hide away. 2. To separate, break a connection ; To clear away, get rid of ;
spobs	 verb-pres 	spobs	  To dare, venture ;
spobs	 verb-past 	spobs	  To dare, venture ;
spobs	 verb-fut 	spobs	  To dare, venture ;
	 verb-pres 	spobs	  
	 verb-past 	spobs	  
	 verb-fut 	spobs	  
spor	 verb-pres 	spor	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To elevate, raise ; 1. To increase, raise, promote. 2. To light a fire ; To move from a previous place to another. 2. For something fixed (e.g. a wall) to quiver, slant, and fall. 3. To put in a higher place ; 1. To set on fire. 2. To raise a price. 3. To put in a higher place. 4. (archaic) To change, shift, alter ;
spar(d)	 verb-past 	spor	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To elevate, raise ; 1. To increase, raise, promote. 2. To light a fire ; To move from a previous place to another. 2. For something fixed (e.g. a wall) to quiver, slant, and fall. 3. To put in a higher place ; 1. To set on fire. 2. To raise a price. 3. To put in a higher place. 4. (archaic) To change, shift, alter ;
spar	 verb-fut 	spor	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To elevate, raise ; 1. To increase, raise, promote. 2. To light a fire ; To move from a previous place to another. 2. For something fixed (e.g. a wall) to quiver, slant, and fall. 3. To put in a higher place ; 1. To set on fire. 2. To raise a price. 3. To put in a higher place. 4. (archaic) To change, shift, alter ;
spor	 verb-pres 	spor	Transitive:   1. To move from an earlier place to another place. 2. To change, exchange ;
spor	 verb-past 	spor	Transitive:   1. To move from an earlier place to another place. 2. To change, exchange ;
spor	 verb-fut 	spor	Transitive:   1. To move from an earlier place to another place. 2. To change, exchange ;
spyang	 verb-pres 	spyang	Intransitive:   To keenly feel, to experience clearly ;
spyang	 verb-past 	spyang	Intransitive:   To keenly feel, to experience clearly ;
spyang	 verb-fut 	spyang	Intransitive:   To keenly feel, to experience clearly ;
spyang	 verb-pres 	spyang	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To suspend, make hand down (Jä) ; To hang down, dangle down (a rope &c.) ;
spyangs	 verb-past 	spyang	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To suspend, make hand down (Jä) ; To hang down, dangle down (a rope &c.) ;
spyang	 verb-fut 	spyang	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To suspend, make hand down (Jä) ; To hang down, dangle down (a rope &c.) ;
spying	 verb-pres 	spying	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To vanish, be lost, to sink, lower down, dip under ; To cause to sink down, to submerge ; To make something sink into water ; To make sink ;
spyings	 verb-past 	spying	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To vanish, be lost, to sink, lower down, dip under ; To cause to sink down, to submerge ; To make something sink into water ; To make sink ;
spying	 verb-fut 	spying	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To vanish, be lost, to sink, lower down, dip under ; To cause to sink down, to submerge ; To make something sink into water ; To make sink ;
spyil	 verb-pres 	spyil	Transitive:   To plaster (mud &c.) ;
spyil	 verb-past 	spyil	Transitive:   To plaster (mud &c.) ;
spyil	 verb-fut 	spyil	Transitive:   To plaster (mud &c.) ;
spyug	 verb-pres 	spyug	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To expel, drive out, banish ; To expel, drive out, send out from a country ; To punish by expelling, driving out to another land a man who has broken the law at a previous time ; To send off elsewhere, to drive away, expel ;
spyugs	 verb-past 	spyug	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To expel, drive out, banish ; To expel, drive out, send out from a country ; To punish by expelling, driving out to another land a man who has broken the law at a previous time ; To send off elsewhere, to drive away, expel ;
spyug	 verb-fut 	spyug	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To expel, drive out, banish ; To expel, drive out, send out from a country ; To punish by expelling, driving out to another land a man who has broken the law at a previous time ; To send off elsewhere, to drive away, expel ;
spyo	 verb-pres 	spyo	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To abuse, revile, blame, scold ; To scold, blame with angry words, to reprove ; To threaten, menace with forceful and bellicose words ; To use harsh words, criticize, threaten, menace ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83) ."]}
spyos	 verb-past 	spyo	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To abuse, revile, blame, scold ; To scold, blame with angry words, to reprove ; To threaten, menace with forceful and bellicose words ; To use harsh words, criticize, threaten, menace ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83) ."]}
spyo	 verb-fut 	spyo	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To abuse, revile, blame, scold ; To scold, blame with angry words, to reprove ; To threaten, menace with forceful and bellicose words ; To use harsh words, criticize, threaten, menace ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83) ."]}
spyod	 verb-pres 	spyod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To practice, perform, accomplish, perpetrate, succeed in ; To put to use, to make use of, utilize, to take pain for a success, to face some difficulty or difficulties ; 1. To eat, wear (food, clothes &c.). 2. To do ; 1. To do, cause. 2. To experience deterioration, to be used ;
spyad	 verb-past 	spyod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To practice, perform, accomplish, perpetrate, succeed in ; To put to use, to make use of, utilize, to take pain for a success, to face some difficulty or difficulties ; 1. To eat, wear (food, clothes &c.). 2. To do ; 1. To do, cause. 2. To experience deterioration, to be used ;
spyad	 verb-fut 	spyod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To practice, perform, accomplish, perpetrate, succeed in ; To put to use, to make use of, utilize, to take pain for a success, to face some difficulty or difficulties ; 1. To eat, wear (food, clothes &c.). 2. To do ; 1. To do, cause. 2. To experience deterioration, to be used ;
spyon	 verb-pres 	spyon	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  (archaic, honorific) To come, arrive ; To make one go, make one come ; (honorific) To exhort to come hither ; To come, to arrive ;
byon(d)	 verb-past 	spyon	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  (archaic, honorific) To come, arrive ; To make one go, make one come ; (honorific) To exhort to come hither ; To come, to arrive ;
'byon	 verb-fut 	spyon	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  (archaic, honorific) To come, arrive ; To make one go, make one come ; (honorific) To exhort to come hither ; To come, to arrive ;
spyom	 verb-pres 	spyom	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To boast, to exhibit with ostentation ; To self-praise, to boast ; To show off (good qualities &c.) to others ; To show off, to exaggerate for others ;
spyoms	 verb-past 	spyom	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To boast, to exhibit with ostentation ; To self-praise, to boast ; To show off (good qualities &c.) to others ; To show off, to exaggerate for others ;
spyom	 verb-fut 	spyom	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To boast, to exhibit with ostentation ; To self-praise, to boast ; To show off (good qualities &c.) to others ; To show off, to exaggerate for others ;
sprang	 verb-pres 	sprang	Intransitive:   To wander without livelihood in order to beg (food &c.) ;
sprang	 verb-past 	sprang	Intransitive:   To wander without livelihood in order to beg (food &c.) ;
sprang	 verb-fut 	sprang	Intransitive:   To wander without livelihood in order to beg (food &c.) ;
spras	 verb-pres 	spras	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To adorn, to decorate ; To put on, wear, beautify ; To decorate (with ornaments &c.) ; To decorate, embellish, ornament ; Compare spa
spras	 verb-past 	spras	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To adorn, to decorate ; To put on, wear, beautify ; To decorate (with ornaments &c.) ; To decorate, embellish, ornament ; Compare spa
spras	 verb-fut 	spras	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To adorn, to decorate ; To put on, wear, beautify ; To decorate (with ornaments &c.) ; To decorate, embellish, ornament ; Compare spa
spring	 verb-pres 	spring	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To send a message, to give information, to send word ; To send a letter &c ; To give, send a letter ; To send, bestow, prolong ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Takeuchi 1990b: 181) ."]}
springs	 verb-past 	spring	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To send a message, to give information, to send word ; To send a letter &c ; To give, send a letter ; To send, bestow, prolong ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Takeuchi 1990b: 181) ."]}
spring	 verb-fut 	spring	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To send a message, to give information, to send word ; To send a letter &c ; To give, send a letter ; To send, bestow, prolong ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Takeuchi 1990b: 181) ."]}
sprib	 verb-pres 	sprib	  To be hungry (Sch.) ; (archaic) To be hungry ;
spribs	 verb-past 	sprib	  To be hungry (Sch.) ; (archaic) To be hungry ;
sprib	 verb-fut 	sprib	  To be hungry (Sch.) ; (archaic) To be hungry ;
sprug	 verb-pres 	sprug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To shake, to shake off, to beat out (e.g. dust) ; To shake off, to shake ; To move back and forth quickly ; To shake, agitate. 2. (archaic) To be finished, spent. 3. (archaic) To purify ;
sprugs	 verb-past 	sprug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To shake, to shake off, to beat out (e.g. dust) ; To shake off, to shake ; To move back and forth quickly ; To shake, agitate. 2. (archaic) To be finished, spent. 3. (archaic) To purify ;
sprug	 verb-fut 	sprug	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To shake, to shake off, to beat out (e.g. dust) ; To shake off, to shake ; To move back and forth quickly ; To shake, agitate. 2. (archaic) To be finished, spent. 3. (archaic) To purify ;
sprul	 verb-pres 	sprul	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To appear to change, to transform one's self, to cause illusions, to alter an object by magic ; To transform, to perform miracles, to exhibit a miracle, to incarnate ; To change (of speech by superstition or divine stories) ; To manifest (of the body of Buddha which arises because of Buddhist teachings) ;
sprul(d)	 verb-past 	sprul	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To appear to change, to transform one's self, to cause illusions, to alter an object by magic ; To transform, to perform miracles, to exhibit a miracle, to incarnate ; To change (of speech by superstition or divine stories) ; To manifest (of the body of Buddha which arises because of Buddhist teachings) ;
sprul	 verb-fut 	sprul	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To appear to change, to transform one's self, to cause illusions, to alter an object by magic ; To transform, to perform miracles, to exhibit a miracle, to incarnate ; To change (of speech by superstition or divine stories) ; To manifest (of the body of Buddha which arises because of Buddhist teachings) ;
spro	 verb-pres 	spro	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To feel energy for, incline toward, to delight in ; To be happy, to be delighted ;
spro	 verb-past 	spro	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To feel energy for, incline toward, to delight in ; To be happy, to be delighted ;
spro	 verb-fut 	spro	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To feel energy for, incline toward, to delight in ; To be happy, to be delighted ;
spro	 verb-pres 	spro	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To go out, proceed (of light, of the wind). 2. To enlarge upon by way of explaining ; To focus rays, enlarge, spread out ; 1. To make light spread. 2. To shoot out quickly ; 1. To disseminate, spread, produce. 2. (dialect) To warm up ;
spros	 verb-past 	spro	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To go out, proceed (of light, of the wind). 2. To enlarge upon by way of explaining ; To focus rays, enlarge, spread out ; 1. To make light spread. 2. To shoot out quickly ; 1. To disseminate, spread, produce. 2. (dialect) To warm up ;
spro	 verb-fut 	spro	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To go out, proceed (of light, of the wind). 2. To enlarge upon by way of explaining ; To focus rays, enlarge, spread out ; 1. To make light spread. 2. To shoot out quickly ; 1. To disseminate, spread, produce. 2. (dialect) To warm up ;
sprod	 verb-pres 	sprod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To bring together, to put together, to make to meet. 2. To deliver a message. 3. To pay. 4. To explain ; 1. To give, contribute. 2. To cause to meet, cause to fight, introduce. 3. To prove ; 1. To give. 2. To entrust with, charge with. 3. To send, cause to be obtained in hand. 4. To bind, tighten. 5. To cause to understand through clear explanation. 6. To make to mutually meet, to introduce ; 1. To give, send. 2. To join together, meet ;
sprad	 verb-past 	sprod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To bring together, to put together, to make to meet. 2. To deliver a message. 3. To pay. 4. To explain ; 1. To give, contribute. 2. To cause to meet, cause to fight, introduce. 3. To prove ; 1. To give. 2. To entrust with, charge with. 3. To send, cause to be obtained in hand. 4. To bind, tighten. 5. To cause to understand through clear explanation. 6. To make to mutually meet, to introduce ; 1. To give, send. 2. To join together, meet ;
sprad	 verb-fut 	sprod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To bring together, to put together, to make to meet. 2. To deliver a message. 3. To pay. 4. To explain ; 1. To give, contribute. 2. To cause to meet, cause to fight, introduce. 3. To prove ; 1. To give. 2. To entrust with, charge with. 3. To send, cause to be obtained in hand. 4. To bind, tighten. 5. To cause to understand through clear explanation. 6. To make to mutually meet, to introduce ; 1. To give, send. 2. To join together, meet ;
spros	 verb-pres 	spros	Transitive:   To speak extensively ;
spros	 verb-past 	spros	Transitive:   To speak extensively ;
spos	 verb-fut 	spros	Transitive:   To speak extensively ;
'phang	 verb-pres 	phangs	Intransitive:   To feel for losing something or someone; 1. To be affectionate, near at hear. 2. To be sad, remorseful ;
phangs	 verb-past 	phangs	Intransitive:   To feel for losing something or someone; 1. To be affectionate, near at hear. 2. To be sad, remorseful ;
phang	 verb-fut 	phangs	Intransitive:   To feel for losing something or someone; 1. To be affectionate, near at hear. 2. To be sad, remorseful ;
phan	 verb-pres 	phan	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To benefit, to be of use, to be useful ; To benefit, to be of use, to be useful, to be helpful ; 1. To be able, for good fruit to arise ; To be helpful ;
phan(d)	 verb-past 	phan	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To benefit, to be of use, to be useful ; To benefit, to be of use, to be useful, to be helpful ; 1. To be able, for good fruit to arise ; To be helpful ;
phan	 verb-fut 	phan	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To benefit, to be of use, to be useful ; To benefit, to be of use, to be useful, to be helpful ; 1. To be able, for good fruit to arise ; To be helpful ;
phigs	 verb-pres 	phigs	Intransitive: Involuntary:  1. To comprehend. 2. (dialect) To open, puncture ; Compare 'bigs
phigs	 verb-past 	phigs	Intransitive: Involuntary:  1. To comprehend. 2. (dialect) To open, puncture ; Compare 'bigs
phigs	 verb-fut 	phigs	Intransitive: Involuntary:  1. To comprehend. 2. (dialect) To open, puncture ; Compare 'bigs
phir	 verb-pres 	phir	  (in West) To fall down (Jä) ;
	 verb-past 	phir	  (in West) To fall down (Jä) ;
	 verb-fut 	phir	  (in West) To fall down (Jä) ;
phub	 verb-pres 	phub	  To probe into, to penetrate into the meaning, to get at the sense ;
	 verb-past 	phub	  To probe into, to penetrate into the meaning, to get at the sense ;
	 verb-fut 	phub	  To probe into, to penetrate into the meaning, to get at the sense ;
phed	 verb-pres 	phed	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To be able to cut, slice (wood &c.), to be able to excavate, dig (a tooth &c.) ;
phed	 verb-past 	phed	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To be able to cut, slice (wood &c.), to be able to excavate, dig (a tooth &c.) ;
phed	 verb-fut 	phed	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To be able to cut, slice (wood &c.), to be able to excavate, dig (a tooth &c.) ;
pheb	 verb-pres 	phebs	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  (honorific) To come, arrive, go, depart ; To go, come, to move ; (honorific) To go, come, arrive ; (honorific) To go, come ;
phebs	 verb-past 	phebs	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  (honorific) To come, arrive, go, depart ; To go, come, to move ; (honorific) To go, come, arrive ; (honorific) To go, come ;
phebs	 verb-fut 	phebs	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  (honorific) To come, arrive, go, depart ; To go, come, to move ; (honorific) To go, come, arrive ; (honorific) To go, come ;
	 verb-pres 	phe'u	  {:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Denwood 1991: 136) ."]}
	 verb-past 	phe'u	  {:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Denwood 1991: 136) ."]}
	 verb-fut 	phe'u	  {:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Denwood 1991: 136) ."]}
pher	 verb-pres 	pher	Transitive:   To be able, capable of, equal to ; To be able, to be allowed ;
pher	 verb-past 	pher	Transitive:   To be able, capable of, equal to ; To be able, to be allowed ;
pher	 verb-fut 	pher	Transitive:   To be able, capable of, equal to ; To be able, to be allowed ;
phongs	 verb-pres 	phongs	  To save, spare, to use economy ;
phang	 verb-past 	phongs	  To save, spare, to use economy ;
	 verb-fut 	phongs	  To save, spare, to use economy ;
'phod	 verb-pres 	phod	  1. To cope with, to be able, to coerce. 2. To withstand, to be a match for ; To be capable of taking risk, to be courageous, to be able of taking decisions ; To have courage, to be able ;
phod	 verb-past 	phod	  1. To cope with, to be able, to coerce. 2. To withstand, to be a match for ; To be capable of taking risk, to be courageous, to be able of taking decisions ; To have courage, to be able ;
'phod	 verb-fut 	phod	  1. To cope with, to be able, to coerce. 2. To withstand, to be a match for ; To be capable of taking risk, to be courageous, to be able of taking decisions ; To have courage, to be able ;
phyid	 verb-pres 	phyid	Intransitive:   1. To suffice, to be sufficient. 2. To freeze, become frozen ; For skin and flesh of a body and organic matter to change nature having frozen ;
phyid	 verb-past 	phyid	Intransitive:   1. To suffice, to be sufficient. 2. To freeze, become frozen ; For skin and flesh of a body and organic matter to change nature having frozen ;
phyid	 verb-fut 	phyid	Intransitive:   1. To suffice, to be sufficient. 2. To freeze, become frozen ; For skin and flesh of a body and organic matter to change nature having frozen ;
phyin(d)	 verb-pres 	phyin	Intransitive:   To go, arrive ;generally regarded as the past of 'gro
phyin(d)	 verb-past 	phyin	Intransitive:   To go, arrive ;generally regarded as the past of 'gro
phyin	 verb-fut 	phyin	Intransitive:   To go, arrive ;generally regarded as the past of 'gro
phyis	 verb-pres 	phyis	Intransitive:   For a foetus to develop in the womb ;
phyis	 verb-past 	phyis	Intransitive:   For a foetus to develop in the womb ;
phyis	 verb-fut 	phyis	Intransitive:   For a foetus to develop in the womb ;
phyug	 verb-pres 	phyug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To enrich, to become rich ; To have many things ; To have great things, have many things ;
phyug	 verb-past 	phyug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To enrich, to become rich ; To have many things ; To have great things, have many things ;
phyug	 verb-fut 	phyug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To enrich, to become rich ; To have many things ; To have great things, have many things ;
phyed	 verb-pres 	phyed	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To change ; To change, to be separated ; 1. To distribute, to separate individually. 2. To change ; 1. To distinguish, separate, separate boundaries. 2. To divide mentally, to know characteristics ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Stein 1939: 306-7, 1942: 230) ."]}
phyed	 verb-past 	phyed	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To change ; To change, to be separated ; 1. To distribute, to separate individually. 2. To change ; 1. To distinguish, separate, separate boundaries. 2. To divide mentally, to know characteristics ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Stein 1939: 306-7, 1942: 230) ."]}
phyed	 verb-fut 	phyed	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To change ; To change, to be separated ; 1. To distribute, to separate individually. 2. To change ; 1. To distinguish, separate, separate boundaries. 2. To divide mentally, to know characteristics ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Stein 1939: 306-7, 1942: 230) ."]}
phyo phyo	 verb-pres 	phyo	  To incite or set on a dog ; To order a dog to bite someone ; A sound to incite, provoke a dog ;
phyo	 verb-past 	phyo	  To incite or set on a dog ; To order a dog to bite someone ; A sound to incite, provoke a dog ;
phyo	 verb-fut 	phyo	  To incite or set on a dog ; To order a dog to bite someone ; A sound to incite, provoke a dog ;
phyogs	 verb-pres 	phyogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To go aside, diverge, to turn. 2. To become visible, to make evident to ; To divert, turn aside, go aside ; To turn ; `1. To face. 2. To enter upon an action. 3. To mentally attend to ;
phyogs	 verb-past 	phyogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To go aside, diverge, to turn. 2. To become visible, to make evident to ; To divert, turn aside, go aside ; To turn ; `1. To face. 2. To enter upon an action. 3. To mentally attend to ;
phyogs	 verb-fut 	phyogs	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To go aside, diverge, to turn. 2. To become visible, to make evident to ; To divert, turn aside, go aside ; To turn ; `1. To face. 2. To enter upon an action. 3. To mentally attend to ;
phyod	 verb-pres 	phyod	  To be thorough, to carry through ;
	 verb-past 	phyod	  To be thorough, to carry through ;
	 verb-fut 	phyod	  To be thorough, to carry through ;
phras	 verb-pres 	phras	Intransitive:   To stretch out the hands and feet ;
phras	 verb-past 	phras	Intransitive:   To stretch out the hands and feet ;
phras	 verb-fut 	phras	Intransitive:   To stretch out the hands and feet ;
phrul	 verb-pres 	phrul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To hang down ;
phrul	 verb-past 	phrul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To hang down ;
phrul	 verb-fut 	phrul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To hang down ;
'phag	 verb-pres 	'phag	Intransitive:   For living creatures to shake, quiver ;
'phag	 verb-past 	'phag	Intransitive:   For living creatures to shake, quiver ;
'phag	 verb-fut 	'phag	Intransitive:   For living creatures to shake, quiver ;
'phag	 verb-pres 	'phag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To rise up, to be elevated, to raise one's self, to be uplifted or raised, to ascend ; To bounce, to jump up, to be elevated ; 1. To become higher in the upward direction. 2. To surpass ; To fly, flutter upward ;The verb tables of TC
'phags	 verb-past 	'phag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To rise up, to be elevated, to raise one's self, to be uplifted or raised, to ascend ; To bounce, to jump up, to be elevated ; 1. To become higher in the upward direction. 2. To surpass ; To fly, flutter upward ;The verb tables of TC
'phag	 verb-fut 	'phag	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To rise up, to be elevated, to raise one's self, to be uplifted or raised, to ascend ; To bounce, to jump up, to be elevated ; 1. To become higher in the upward direction. 2. To surpass ; To fly, flutter upward ;The verb tables of TC
'phang	 verb-pres 	'phang	  To save, spare, use economy (Jä) ; To cause to be avaricious ;
phangs	 verb-past 	'phang	  To save, spare, use economy (Jä) ; To cause to be avaricious ;
phang	 verb-fut 	'phang	  To save, spare, use economy (Jä) ; To cause to be avaricious ;
'pham	 verb-pres 	'pham	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be defeated, subdued, vanquished, worsted, to succumb ; To be defeated, to lose, fail, to feel dissatisfactory, to feel sorry ; 1. To be defeated. 2. To deteriorate, weaken (belief, mental vigor &c.) ; To be defeated unmatched by the other side ;
pham	 verb-past 	'pham	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be defeated, subdued, vanquished, worsted, to succumb ; To be defeated, to lose, fail, to feel dissatisfactory, to feel sorry ; 1. To be defeated. 2. To deteriorate, weaken (belief, mental vigor &c.) ; To be defeated unmatched by the other side ;
pham	 verb-fut 	'pham	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be defeated, subdued, vanquished, worsted, to succumb ; To be defeated, to lose, fail, to feel dissatisfactory, to feel sorry ; 1. To be defeated. 2. To deteriorate, weaken (belief, mental vigor &c.) ; To be defeated unmatched by the other side ;
'phar	 verb-pres 	'phar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To leap up, to fly up, to bound, to throb. 2. To be raised, elevated, promoted, advanced. 3. To flutter, to move to and fro (A. 16) ; To increase, to become higher, increase, to go higher up, fly up, to pulse ; 1. To multiply. 2. To get larger, higher. 3. To move to and fro ; 1. To raise up, tremble. 2. To increase, multiply ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Simon 1971: 474)"]}
'phar(d)	 verb-past 	'phar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To leap up, to fly up, to bound, to throb. 2. To be raised, elevated, promoted, advanced. 3. To flutter, to move to and fro (A. 16) ; To increase, to become higher, increase, to go higher up, fly up, to pulse ; 1. To multiply. 2. To get larger, higher. 3. To move to and fro ; 1. To raise up, tremble. 2. To increase, multiply ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Simon 1971: 474)"]}
'phar	 verb-fut 	'phar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To leap up, to fly up, to bound, to throb. 2. To be raised, elevated, promoted, advanced. 3. To flutter, to move to and fro (A. 16) ; To increase, to become higher, increase, to go higher up, fly up, to pulse ; 1. To multiply. 2. To get larger, higher. 3. To move to and fro ; 1. To raise up, tremble. 2. To increase, multiply ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Simon 1971: 474)"]}
'phibs	 verb-pres 	'phibs	 Voluntary:  To pitch a tent, roof, umbrella ; Compare 'bubs
phib	 verb-past 	'phibs	 Voluntary:  To pitch a tent, roof, umbrella ; Compare 'bubs
dbib	 verb-fut 	'phibs	 Voluntary:  To pitch a tent, roof, umbrella ; Compare 'bubs
'phir(d)	 verb-pres 	'phir(d)	  To jump, leap, sparkle ;
phir	 verb-past 	'phir(d)	  To jump, leap, sparkle ;
'phir	 verb-fut 	'phir(d)	  To jump, leap, sparkle ;
'phung	 verb-pres 	'phung	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To degenerate, decay, to be in declining circumstances, to wear away ; To ruin, to degenerate, to decay ; To destroy, harm, injure ; 1. To lose, destroy, harm, injure. 2. To be collected together, to compound, assemble, collect ;
phung	 verb-past 	'phung	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To degenerate, decay, to be in declining circumstances, to wear away ; To ruin, to degenerate, to decay ; To destroy, harm, injure ; 1. To lose, destroy, harm, injure. 2. To be collected together, to compound, assemble, collect ;
'phung	 verb-fut 	'phung	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To degenerate, decay, to be in declining circumstances, to wear away ; To ruin, to degenerate, to decay ; To destroy, harm, injure ; 1. To lose, destroy, harm, injure. 2. To be collected together, to compound, assemble, collect ;
'phud	 verb-pres 	'phud	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To transfer, lay aside, to put apart ; 1. To take out from among, to expel. 2. To take from the body (wool &c.). 3. To take something from one direction and drive away ;  To expel out, drive away ;
phud	 verb-past 	'phud	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To transfer, lay aside, to put apart ; 1. To take out from among, to expel. 2. To take from the body (wool &c.). 3. To take something from one direction and drive away ;  To expel out, drive away ;
phud	 verb-fut 	'phud	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To transfer, lay aside, to put apart ; 1. To take out from among, to expel. 2. To take from the body (wool &c.). 3. To take something from one direction and drive away ;  To expel out, drive away ;
'phur	 verb-pres 	'phur	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To rub with the hand (e.g. in washing), to scratch softly (Jä) ; To rub, to tan ; To touch again and again in the same place, to rub ; To tan, to scratch ;
phur	 verb-past 	'phur	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To rub with the hand (e.g. in washing), to scratch softly (Jä) ; To rub, to tan ; To touch again and again in the same place, to rub ; To tan, to scratch ;
dbur	 verb-fut 	'phur	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To rub with the hand (e.g. in washing), to scratch softly (Jä) ; To rub, to tan ; To touch again and again in the same place, to rub ; To tan, to scratch ;
'phur	 verb-pres 	'phur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To fly. 2. To fan, flop to and fro ; To fly, to fly in the sky ; 1. (of a bird or kind of insect) To use wings to go, come in the intermediate space between heaven and earth. 2. For something to float, fly in the sky ; To go in the sky, fly in the intermediate space between heaven and earth ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Simon 1971: 474)"]}
'phur(d)	 verb-past 	'phur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To fly. 2. To fan, flop to and fro ; To fly, to fly in the sky ; 1. (of a bird or kind of insect) To use wings to go, come in the intermediate space between heaven and earth. 2. For something to float, fly in the sky ; To go in the sky, fly in the intermediate space between heaven and earth ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Simon 1971: 474)"]}
'phur	 verb-fut 	'phur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To fly. 2. To fan, flop to and fro ; To fly, to fly in the sky ; 1. (of a bird or kind of insect) To use wings to go, come in the intermediate space between heaven and earth. 2. For something to float, fly in the sky ; To go in the sky, fly in the intermediate space between heaven and earth ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Simon 1971: 474)"]}
'phul	 verb-pres 	'phul	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To press, drive, push, knock ; To be prefixed, to come in front of ; To make pass ; 1. To leave behind, abandon, reject. 2. To prefix a letter to a root letter ;
'phul(d)	 verb-past 	'phul	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To press, drive, push, knock ; To be prefixed, to come in front of ; To make pass ; 1. To leave behind, abandon, reject. 2. To prefix a letter to a root letter ;
'phul	 verb-fut 	'phul	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To press, drive, push, knock ; To be prefixed, to come in front of ; To make pass ; 1. To leave behind, abandon, reject. 2. To prefix a letter to a root letter ;
'phen(d)	 verb-pres 	'phen	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To throw, to fling ; To throw, shoot, to give up ; To expel, shoot out (arrows, bullets &c.) relying on (elastic power &c.) ; To throw, strike, throw out, throw away ;
'phangs	 verb-past 	'phen	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To throw, to fling ; To throw, shoot, to give up ; To expel, shoot out (arrows, bullets &c.) relying on (elastic power &c.) ; To throw, strike, throw out, throw away ;
'phang	 verb-fut 	'phen	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To throw, to fling ; To throw, shoot, to give up ; To expel, shoot out (arrows, bullets &c.) relying on (elastic power &c.) ; To throw, strike, throw out, throw away ;
'pher	 verb-pres 	'pher	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To raise ; To be able, to be capable, to be serviceable, to be eligible ; To be able, appropriate ;
pher(d)	 verb-past 	'pher	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To raise ; To be able, to be capable, to be serviceable, to be eligible ; To be able, appropriate ;
pher	 verb-fut 	'pher	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To raise ; To be able, to be capable, to be serviceable, to be eligible ; To be able, appropriate ;
'phel	 verb-pres 	'phel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To increase (either in number or in size), to become more or larger ; To increase, to become larger, bigger, to become wider, develop ; 1. To increase in number. 2. To increase in size, volume ; To increase in size, increase in number ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Denwood 1991: 136) ."]}
'phel	 verb-past 	'phel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To increase (either in number or in size), to become more or larger ; To increase, to become larger, bigger, to become wider, develop ; 1. To increase in number. 2. To increase in size, volume ; To increase in size, increase in number ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Denwood 1991: 136) ."]}
'phel	 verb-fut 	'phel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To increase (either in number or in size), to become more or larger ; To increase, to become larger, bigger, to become wider, develop ; 1. To increase in number. 2. To increase in size, volume ; To increase in size, increase in number ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Denwood 1991: 136) ."]}
'pho	 verb-pres 	'pho	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To change place, go, move oneself away, migrate ; To be transferred, to move from one place to another place, to change ; 1. To move from one place to another place. 2. To die ; To go, to pass on ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
'phos	 verb-past 	'pho	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To change place, go, move oneself away, migrate ; To be transferred, to move from one place to another place, to change ; 1. To move from one place to another place. 2. To die ; To go, to pass on ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
'pho	 verb-fut 	'pho	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To change place, go, move oneself away, migrate ; To be transferred, to move from one place to another place, to change ; 1. To move from one place to another place. 2. To die ; To go, to pass on ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
'phog	 verb-pres 	'phog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To strike, to affect, influence, touch ; To hit, strike ; 1. To hit on top. 2. To come on top of the meaning of a verbal expression, to hurt, to offend someone. 3. To get sick, be ill ; To hit, strike ; Compare 'bags
phog	 verb-past 	'phog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To strike, to affect, influence, touch ; To hit, strike ; 1. To hit on top. 2. To come on top of the meaning of a verbal expression, to hurt, to offend someone. 3. To get sick, be ill ; To hit, strike ; Compare 'bags
phog	 verb-fut 	'phog	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To strike, to affect, influence, touch ; To hit, strike ; 1. To hit on top. 2. To come on top of the meaning of a verbal expression, to hurt, to offend someone. 3. To get sick, be ill ; To hit, strike ; Compare 'bags
phongs	 verb-pres 	'phong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To be poor, indigent, unfortunate. 2. (with instrumental) To be bereft of, to lose ; To be destitute, to become poor ; To become poor, to not have many possessions ; To be poor ;
'phongs	 verb-past 	'phong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To be poor, indigent, unfortunate. 2. (with instrumental) To be bereft of, to lose ; To be destitute, to become poor ; To become poor, to not have many possessions ; To be poor ;
phongs	 verb-fut 	'phong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To be poor, indigent, unfortunate. 2. (with instrumental) To be bereft of, to lose ; To be destitute, to become poor ; To become poor, to not have many possessions ; To be poor ;
'phol	 verb-pres 	'phol	  To break through the difficulties of knowing ;
phol(d)	 verb-past 	'phol	  To break through the difficulties of knowing ;
phol	 verb-fut 	'phol	  To break through the difficulties of knowing ;
'phya	 verb-pres 	'phya	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To blame, censure, chide, abuse, deride ; To reprove, to blame, criticize ; To abuse, mistreat, insult, belittle ;
'phyas	 verb-past 	'phya	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To blame, censure, chide, abuse, deride ; To reprove, to blame, criticize ; To abuse, mistreat, insult, belittle ;
'phya	 verb-fut 	'phya	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To blame, censure, chide, abuse, deride ; To reprove, to blame, criticize ; To abuse, mistreat, insult, belittle ;
'phyag	 verb-pres 	'phyag	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To sweep ; To sweep, to clean with a broom ; To clean dirt, dust with a broom ; To clean ;
'phyags	 verb-past 	'phyag	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To sweep ; To sweep, to clean with a broom ; To clean dirt, dust with a broom ; To clean ;
'phyag	 verb-fut 	'phyag	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To sweep ; To sweep, to clean with a broom ; To clean dirt, dust with a broom ; To clean ;
'phyang	 verb-pres 	'phyang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To hang down, to be suspended, to hang on to ; To be suspended, to hang down ; To hang down from the end of a long thing ; To be bent downward by nature ;
'phyangs	 verb-past 	'phyang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To hang down, to be suspended, to hang on to ; To be suspended, to hang down ; To hang down from the end of a long thing ; To be bent downward by nature ;
'phyang	 verb-fut 	'phyang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To hang down, to be suspended, to hang on to ; To be suspended, to hang down ; To hang down from the end of a long thing ; To be bent downward by nature ;
'phyan	 verb-pres 	'phyan	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To ramble, range, roam about, wander, stray from (Jä) ; To wander, to ramble ; 1. To turn. 2. To travel without a definite destination ; To roam, wander ;
'phyan(d)	 verb-past 	'phyan	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To ramble, range, roam about, wander, stray from (Jä) ; To wander, to ramble ; 1. To turn. 2. To travel without a definite destination ; To roam, wander ;
'phyan	 verb-fut 	'phyan	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To ramble, range, roam about, wander, stray from (Jä) ; To wander, to ramble ; 1. To turn. 2. To travel without a definite destination ; To roam, wander ;
'phyar	 verb-pres 	'phyar	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To hoist, lift, to hold aloft. 2. To show, to represent, to excite, to awaken (Cs.) ; To lift up, to raise, to hoist a flag ; 1. To winnow (kinds of grain &c.) in the wind. 2. To stick in a high place ; To raise, hoist on high ;
phyar(d)	 verb-past 	'phyar	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To hoist, lift, to hold aloft. 2. To show, to represent, to excite, to awaken (Cs.) ; To lift up, to raise, to hoist a flag ; 1. To winnow (kinds of grain &c.) in the wind. 2. To stick in a high place ; To raise, hoist on high ;
'phyar	 verb-fut 	'phyar	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To hoist, lift, to hold aloft. 2. To show, to represent, to excite, to awaken (Cs.) ; To lift up, to raise, to hoist a flag ; 1. To winnow (kinds of grain &c.) in the wind. 2. To stick in a high place ; To raise, hoist on high ;
'phyi	 verb-pres 	'phyi	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be late, to be belated, to come too late ; To be late, to come later ; For a certain time to pass ; To be late, to be delayed ;
'phyis	 verb-past 	'phyi	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be late, to be belated, to come too late ; To be late, to come later ; For a certain time to pass ; To be late, to be delayed ;
'phyi	 verb-fut 	'phyi	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be late, to be belated, to come too late ; To be late, to come later ; For a certain time to pass ; To be late, to be delayed ;
'phyi	 verb-pres 	'phyi	  To be effaced ;
	 verb-past 	'phyi	  To be effaced ;
	 verb-fut 	'phyi	  To be effaced ;
'phyings	 verb-pres 	'phying	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To intermingle, to become like felt ; To be tangled ; To be tangled, get stuck together ;
phying	 verb-past 	'phying	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To intermingle, to become like felt ; To be tangled ; To be tangled, get stuck together ;
'phying	 verb-fut 	'phying	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To intermingle, to become like felt ; To be tangled ; To be tangled, get stuck together ;
'phyid	 verb-pres 	'phyid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To suffice, be enough ; To spoil the eyes in snow ; 1. To suffer in the limbs, or power of eyesight. 2. To finish, to carry through with ; Compare 'byid
phyid	 verb-past 	'phyid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To suffice, be enough ; To spoil the eyes in snow ; 1. To suffer in the limbs, or power of eyesight. 2. To finish, to carry through with ; Compare 'byid
'phyid	 verb-fut 	'phyid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To suffice, be enough ; To spoil the eyes in snow ; 1. To suffer in the limbs, or power of eyesight. 2. To finish, to carry through with ; Compare 'byid
'phyil	 verb-pres 	'phyil	  To wind, to twist (Wdn.) (Jä) ;
	 verb-past 	'phyil	  To wind, to twist (Wdn.) (Jä) ;
	 verb-fut 	'phyil	  To wind, to twist (Wdn.) (Jä) ;
'phyug	 verb-pres 	'phyug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To mistake, to be mistaken. 2. To miss ; To mistake, to be mistaken ; To make a mistake, to be confused ; To make a mistake, blunder, go wrong ; Compare 'chug
'phyugs	 verb-past 	'phyug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To mistake, to be mistaken. 2. To miss ; To mistake, to be mistaken ; To make a mistake, to be confused ; To make a mistake, blunder, go wrong ; Compare 'chug
'phyug	 verb-fut 	'phyug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To mistake, to be mistaken. 2. To miss ; To mistake, to be mistaken ; To make a mistake, to be confused ; To make a mistake, blunder, go wrong ; Compare 'chug
'phyur	 verb-pres 	'phyur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To ascend, to mount, to rise up (of smoke), to overflow, inundate (of rivers, lakes &c.). 2. To heap up, to accumulate (Sch.) ; To rise up, to overflow ; To bubble up (clouds, smoke &c.) ; To spread, diffuse, curl, swirl ;
'phyur(d)	 verb-past 	'phyur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To ascend, to mount, to rise up (of smoke), to overflow, inundate (of rivers, lakes &c.). 2. To heap up, to accumulate (Sch.) ; To rise up, to overflow ; To bubble up (clouds, smoke &c.) ; To spread, diffuse, curl, swirl ;
'phyur	 verb-fut 	'phyur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To ascend, to mount, to rise up (of smoke), to overflow, inundate (of rivers, lakes &c.). 2. To heap up, to accumulate (Sch.) ; To rise up, to overflow ; To bubble up (clouds, smoke &c.) ; To spread, diffuse, curl, swirl ;
'phye	 verb-pres 	'phye	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To crawl, to creep, like snakes ; To creep like a snake, to move on stomach close to the ground [sic] ; To crawl, slither without feet ; To go ;
'phyes	 verb-past 	'phye	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To crawl, to creep, like snakes ; To creep like a snake, to move on stomach close to the ground [sic] ; To crawl, slither without feet ; To go ;
'phye	 verb-fut 	'phye	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To crawl, to creep, like snakes ; To creep like a snake, to move on stomach close to the ground [sic] ; To crawl, slither without feet ; To go ;
'phyo	 verb-pres 	'phyo	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To move, throb, be agitated. 2. To soar, to float in the air (Thgy.). 3. To flow forth, heave, smell (of fluids). 4. To range, roam about, gambol ; To move, to wave, to throb ; 1. To leap, surge upward. 2. To flitter about because of one condition (of the mind). 3. To float, glide on the surface of water ; 1. To fly, leap. 2. To raise up, jump. 3. For the mind to be unhappy ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
'phyos	 verb-past 	'phyo	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To move, throb, be agitated. 2. To soar, to float in the air (Thgy.). 3. To flow forth, heave, smell (of fluids). 4. To range, roam about, gambol ; To move, to wave, to throb ; 1. To leap, surge upward. 2. To flitter about because of one condition (of the mind). 3. To float, glide on the surface of water ; 1. To fly, leap. 2. To raise up, jump. 3. For the mind to be unhappy ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
'phyo	 verb-fut 	'phyo	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To move, throb, be agitated. 2. To soar, to float in the air (Thgy.). 3. To flow forth, heave, smell (of fluids). 4. To range, roam about, gambol ; To move, to wave, to throb ; 1. To leap, surge upward. 2. To flitter about because of one condition (of the mind). 3. To float, glide on the surface of water ; 1. To fly, leap. 2. To raise up, jump. 3. For the mind to be unhappy ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
'phyong	 verb-pres 	'phyong	  1. To protect. 2. To lay aside, abandon ; (archaic) To protect, take care of ;
'phyong	 verb-past 	'phyong	  1. To protect. 2. To lay aside, abandon ; (archaic) To protect, take care of ;
	 verb-fut 	'phyong	  1. To protect. 2. To lay aside, abandon ; (archaic) To protect, take care of ;
'phyod	 verb-pres 	'phyod	  To cover up ;
phyod	 verb-past 	'phyod	  To cover up ;
phyod	 verb-fut 	'phyod	  To cover up ;
'phyor	 verb-pres 	'phyor	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To rove. 2. To raise, brandish, feel, sense ; To be rich, to adorn ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS"]}
'phyar(d)	 verb-past 	'phyor	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To rove. 2. To raise, brandish, feel, sense ; To be rich, to adorn ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS"]}
'phyar	 verb-fut 	'phyor	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To rove. 2. To raise, brandish, feel, sense ; To be rich, to adorn ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["DS"]}
'phra	 verb-pres 	'phra	Transitive:  Involuntary:  To kick, to strike with the foot, to struggle ; To kick (of horses and yaks) ;
'phras	 verb-past 	'phra	Transitive:  Involuntary:  To kick, to strike with the foot, to struggle ; To kick (of horses and yaks) ;
'phra	 verb-fut 	'phra	Transitive:  Involuntary:  To kick, to strike with the foot, to struggle ; To kick (of horses and yaks) ;
'phrag	 verb-pres 	'phrag	  To stir up, to spur (a horse &c.) ;
	 verb-past 	'phrag	  To stir up, to spur (a horse &c.) ;
	 verb-fut 	'phrag	  To stir up, to spur (a horse &c.) ;
'phrangs	 verb-pres 	'phrangs	  To be anxious, to be attached, enthusiastic ; Compare 'phreng
phrang	 verb-past 	'phrangs	  To be anxious, to be attached, enthusiastic ; Compare 'phreng
'phrang	 verb-fut 	'phrangs	  To be anxious, to be attached, enthusiastic ; Compare 'phreng
'phrad	 verb-pres 	'phrad	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To interview, to meet together ; To meet, to face ; To assemble at one time ; To meet ;
phrad	 verb-past 	'phrad	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To interview, to meet together ; To meet, to face ; To assemble at one time ; To meet ;
phrad	 verb-fut 	'phrad	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To interview, to meet together ; To meet, to face ; To assemble at one time ; To meet ;
'phrab	 verb-pres 	'phrab	  To kick, struggle, dance ; To beat, to harm ;
phrabs	 verb-past 	'phrab	  To kick, struggle, dance ; To beat, to harm ;
phrab	 verb-fut 	'phrab	  To kick, struggle, dance ; To beat, to harm ;
'bral	 verb-pres 	'phral	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  (with the word ; To part, to separate, to keep apart, put apart ; 1. To separate individually. 2. To pierce, tear. 3. To enter in order to separate (e.g. friends and enemies) ; 1. To throw away, separate, make different. 2. To tear, rip ;
phral	 verb-past 	'phral	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  (with the word ; To part, to separate, to keep apart, put apart ; 1. To separate individually. 2. To pierce, tear. 3. To enter in order to separate (e.g. friends and enemies) ; 1. To throw away, separate, make different. 2. To tear, rip ;
dbral	 verb-fut 	'phral	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  (with the word ; To part, to separate, to keep apart, put apart ; 1. To separate individually. 2. To pierce, tear. 3. To enter in order to separate (e.g. friends and enemies) ; 1. To throw away, separate, make different. 2. To tear, rip ;
'bri	 verb-pres 	'phri	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To diminish, take away from ; To reduce, to make less, diminish ; To subtract from a round number ; To make fewer ;
phris	 verb-past 	'phri	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To diminish, take away from ; To reduce, to make less, diminish ; To subtract from a round number ; To make fewer ;
dbri	 verb-fut 	'phri	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To diminish, take away from ; To reduce, to make less, diminish ; To subtract from a round number ; To make fewer ;
'phrig	 verb-pres 	'phrig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To doubt, be undecided about ; To test, examine, to understand, to ascertain, to throb ; 1. To know, to understand. 2. To doubt, be suspicious ; 1. To examine with scrutiny. 2. To rise, move back and forth ;
phrigs	 verb-past 	'phrig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To doubt, be undecided about ; To test, examine, to understand, to ascertain, to throb ; 1. To know, to understand. 2. To doubt, be suspicious ; 1. To examine with scrutiny. 2. To rise, move back and forth ;
phrig	 verb-fut 	'phrig	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To doubt, be undecided about ; To test, examine, to understand, to ascertain, to throb ; 1. To know, to understand. 2. To doubt, be suspicious ; 1. To examine with scrutiny. 2. To rise, move back and forth ;
'phru	 verb-pres 	'phru	  To plough a fresh piece of land, to dig land for cultivation ;
phrus	 verb-past 	'phru	  To plough a fresh piece of land, to dig land for cultivation ;
phru	 verb-fut 	'phru	  To plough a fresh piece of land, to dig land for cultivation ;
'phrug	 verb-pres 	'phrug	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To scratch one's body ; To itch ; To rub, scratch the an itch on the body ; To scratch ;
phrugs	 verb-past 	'phrug	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To scratch one's body ; To itch ; To rub, scratch the an itch on the body ; To scratch ;
'phrug	 verb-fut 	'phrug	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To scratch one's body ; To itch ; To rub, scratch the an itch on the body ; To scratch ;
'phrul	 verb-pres 	'phrul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To appear to change, to transform one's self, to cause illusions, to alter an object by magic. 2. To be mistaken, err, to make blunders. 3. To separate, sort, discriminate (the good from the bad, truth from falsehood) (Jä) ; For a false meaning to arise, manifest to the mind or senses ; To manifest magically, to move ;
'phrul(d)	 verb-past 	'phrul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To appear to change, to transform one's self, to cause illusions, to alter an object by magic. 2. To be mistaken, err, to make blunders. 3. To separate, sort, discriminate (the good from the bad, truth from falsehood) (Jä) ; For a false meaning to arise, manifest to the mind or senses ; To manifest magically, to move ;
'phrul	 verb-fut 	'phrul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To appear to change, to transform one's self, to cause illusions, to alter an object by magic. 2. To be mistaken, err, to make blunders. 3. To separate, sort, discriminate (the good from the bad, truth from falsehood) (Jä) ; For a false meaning to arise, manifest to the mind or senses ; To manifest magically, to move ;
'phre	 verb-pres 	'phre	  To incline, to lean against, to put down, to lay down ;
'phres	 verb-past 	'phre	  To incline, to lean against, to put down, to lay down ;
	 verb-fut 	'phre	  To incline, to lean against, to put down, to lay down ;
'phreng	 verb-pres 	'phreng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To fasten, be fastened to, be affixed to, be arranged (especially in a settled and orderly manner) ; To be anxious, to be attached, enthusiastic ; To think about a person or thing ;
'phrengs	 verb-past 	'phreng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To fasten, be fastened to, be affixed to, be arranged (especially in a settled and orderly manner) ; To be anxious, to be attached, enthusiastic ; To think about a person or thing ;
'phreng	 verb-fut 	'phreng	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To fasten, be fastened to, be affixed to, be arranged (especially in a settled and orderly manner) ; To be anxious, to be attached, enthusiastic ; To think about a person or thing ;
'phro	 verb-pres 	'phro	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To proceed, issue, emanate from, to spread,  diffuse ; To emanate light and mind ; 1. For light to shine. 2. For the mind or eyes to wander ; 1. To radiate, shine.  2. To wander ;
'phros	 verb-past 	'phro	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To proceed, issue, emanate from, to spread,  diffuse ; To emanate light and mind ; 1. For light to shine. 2. For the mind or eyes to wander ; 1. To radiate, shine.  2. To wander ;
'phro	 verb-fut 	'phro	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To proceed, issue, emanate from, to spread,  diffuse ; To emanate light and mind ; 1. For light to shine. 2. For the mind or eyes to wander ; 1. To radiate, shine.  2. To wander ;
'phrog	 verb-pres 	'phrog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To rob, run away with, to deprive of ; To rob, snatch, grab, to attract ; 1. To take something by force that which had not been given. 2. To take by force for oneself. 3. To bring to mind ; To take, assemble by force ;
phrogs	 verb-past 	'phrog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To rob, run away with, to deprive of ; To rob, snatch, grab, to attract ; 1. To take something by force that which had not been given. 2. To take by force for oneself. 3. To bring to mind ; To take, assemble by force ;
dphrog	 verb-fut 	'phrog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To rob, run away with, to deprive of ; To rob, snatch, grab, to attract ; 1. To take something by force that which had not been given. 2. To take by force for oneself. 3. To bring to mind ; To take, assemble by force ;
'phrod	 verb-pres 	'phrod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be given, bestowed, offered, delivered ; To receive, to be recognized, to be fit or suitable, to be benefited or helped by being suitable ; For something give to arrive in hand. 2. To conform, to be appropriate. 3. To be mentally certain ; 1. To receive something given, to obtain, receive in hand. 2. To be suitable, to be in harmony, to help. 3. (archaic) To gather, assemble ;
'phrod	 verb-past 	'phrod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be given, bestowed, offered, delivered ; To receive, to be recognized, to be fit or suitable, to be benefited or helped by being suitable ; For something give to arrive in hand. 2. To conform, to be appropriate. 3. To be mentally certain ; 1. To receive something given, to obtain, receive in hand. 2. To be suitable, to be in harmony, to help. 3. (archaic) To gather, assemble ;
'phrod	 verb-fut 	'phrod	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be given, bestowed, offered, delivered ; To receive, to be recognized, to be fit or suitable, to be benefited or helped by being suitable ; For something give to arrive in hand. 2. To conform, to be appropriate. 3. To be mentally certain ; 1. To receive something given, to obtain, receive in hand. 2. To be suitable, to be in harmony, to help. 3. (archaic) To gather, assemble ;
bad	 verb-pres 	bad	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To be satisfied by food, sated, full. 2. To become drunk, intoxicated ; 1. To be satisfied. 2. To become drunk, intoxicated ;
bad	 verb-past 	bad	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To be satisfied by food, sated, full. 2. To become drunk, intoxicated ; 1. To be satisfied. 2. To become drunk, intoxicated ;
bad	 verb-fut 	bad	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To be satisfied by food, sated, full. 2. To become drunk, intoxicated ; 1. To be satisfied. 2. To become drunk, intoxicated ;
bam	 verb-pres 	bam	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be mildewed ; To rot ;
bams	 verb-past 	bam	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be mildewed ; To rot ;
bam	 verb-fut 	bam	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be mildewed ; To rot ;
bud	 verb-pres 	bud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To come out, away ;
bud	 verb-past 	bud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To come out, away ;
bud	 verb-fut 	bud	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To come out, away ;
bur	 verb-pres 	bur	  To be dislocated, to become crooked ;
bur(d)	 verb-past 	bur	  To be dislocated, to become crooked ;
bur	 verb-fut 	bur	  To be dislocated, to become crooked ;
bul	 verb-pres 	bul	  To become slow, to be slow ;
bul(d)	 verb-past 	bul	  To become slow, to be slow ;
bul	 verb-fut 	bul	  To become slow, to be slow ;
bem	 verb-pres 	bem	Intransitive:   To become numb ;
bem	 verb-past 	bem	Intransitive:   To become numb ;
bem	 verb-fut 	bem	Intransitive:   To become numb ;
	 verb-pres 	bel	  {:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Denwood 1991: 136) ."]}
	 verb-past 	bel	  {:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Denwood 1991: 136) ."]}
	 verb-fut 	bel	  {:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Denwood 1991: 136) ."]}
bon	 verb-pres 	bon	  (archaic) To express, to mutter ; 1. To ask (a god, sovereign). 2.  To give, offer (to a god, sovereign). 3. (for a god, sovereign) To receive, obtain, take. 4. (probable) To murmur, recite (charms, prayers). 5. (probable) To invoke, summon, call ; To express, recite, mutter ;Very likely related to the noun bon
bon(d)	 verb-past 	bon	  (archaic) To express, to mutter ; 1. To ask (a god, sovereign). 2.  To give, offer (to a god, sovereign). 3. (for a god, sovereign) To receive, obtain, take. 4. (probable) To murmur, recite (charms, prayers). 5. (probable) To invoke, summon, call ; To express, recite, mutter ;Very likely related to the noun bon
bon	 verb-fut 	bon	  (archaic) To express, to mutter ; 1. To ask (a god, sovereign). 2.  To give, offer (to a god, sovereign). 3. (for a god, sovereign) To receive, obtain, take. 4. (probable) To murmur, recite (charms, prayers). 5. (probable) To invoke, summon, call ; To express, recite, mutter ;Very likely related to the noun bon
bor	 verb-pres 	bor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To become lost 2. To wane, disappear, be thrown away. 3. To say, do ; To lose ;
bor	 verb-past 	bor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To become lost 2. To wane, disappear, be thrown away. 3. To say, do ; To lose ;
bor	 verb-fut 	bor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To become lost 2. To wane, disappear, be thrown away. 3. To say, do ; To lose ;
byang	 verb-pres 	byang	Intransitive:   1. To be great (of an experience). 2. To make something soft, smooth through wiping, touching ;
byang	 verb-past 	byang	Intransitive:   1. To be great (of an experience). 2. To make something soft, smooth through wiping, touching ;
byang	 verb-fut 	byang	Intransitive:   1. To be great (of an experience). 2. To make something soft, smooth through wiping, touching ;
byab	 verb-pres 	byab	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To cleanse, wash, wipe. 2. To seize, clutch ; To haul down, to remove filthy matters, to wash, clean ; To rub, sweep ;  To sweep, clear away, wipe ;
byabs	 verb-past 	byab	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To cleanse, wash, wipe. 2. To seize, clutch ; To haul down, to remove filthy matters, to wash, clean ; To rub, sweep ;  To sweep, clear away, wipe ;
byab	 verb-fut 	byab	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To cleanse, wash, wipe. 2. To seize, clutch ; To haul down, to remove filthy matters, to wash, clean ; To rub, sweep ;  To sweep, clear away, wipe ;
byams	 verb-pres 	byams	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  The opposite of dislike, to be near at heart ; 1. To want another to have happiness. 2. For clothes to fit, be comfortable on the body ;
byams	 verb-past 	byams	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  The opposite of dislike, to be near at heart ; 1. To want another to have happiness. 2. For clothes to fit, be comfortable on the body ;
byams	 verb-fut 	byams	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  The opposite of dislike, to be near at heart ; 1. To want another to have happiness. 2. For clothes to fit, be comfortable on the body ;
byib	 verb-pres 	byib	Transitive:   [To cover] ; To encase, cover ; To be covered up, to spread over, to spread, to smudge with ink, to cause to spread over, to wrap in ;
byibs	 verb-past 	byib	Transitive:   [To cover] ; To encase, cover ; To be covered up, to spread over, to spread, to smudge with ink, to cause to spread over, to wrap in ;
byib	 verb-fut 	byib	Transitive:   [To cover] ; To encase, cover ; To be covered up, to spread over, to spread, to smudge with ink, to cause to spread over, to wrap in ;
byil	 verb-pres 	byil	Transitive:   To rub, spread (unguent, salve) ;
byil	 verb-past 	byil	Transitive:   To rub, spread (unguent, salve) ;
byil	 verb-fut 	byil	Transitive:   To rub, spread (unguent, salve) ;
	 verb-pres 	byung	   From the verb 'byung
	 verb-past 	byung	   From the verb 'byung
	 verb-fut 	byung	   From the verb 'byung
byed	 verb-pres 	byed	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To do, to make ; To do, work ; 1. To do, work. 2. To replace, substitute, take responsibility for ; To do the work of mind, speech, or body ;
byas	 verb-past 	byed	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To do, to make ; To do, work ; 1. To do, work. 2. To replace, substitute, take responsibility for ; To do the work of mind, speech, or body ;
bya	 verb-fut 	byed	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To do, to make ; To do, work ; 1. To do, work. 2. To replace, substitute, take responsibility for ; To do the work of mind, speech, or body ;
byer	 verb-pres 	byer	  To separate, disintegrate, destroy ;
byer(d)	 verb-past 	byer	  To separate, disintegrate, destroy ;
'byer	 verb-fut 	byer	  To separate, disintegrate, destroy ;
byor	 verb-pres 	byo	  To hear, listen to ;
	 verb-past 	byo	  To hear, listen to ;
	 verb-fut 	byo	  To hear, listen to ;
bra	 verb-pres 	bra	   To have great plenty, be in great plenty ; Root given as bra < *mra (Beyer 1992: 86).
	 verb-past 	bra	   To have great plenty, be in great plenty ; Root given as bra < *mra (Beyer 1992: 86).
	 verb-fut 	bra	   To have great plenty, be in great plenty ; Root given as bra < *mra (Beyer 1992: 86).
	 verb-pres 	bra	  
	 verb-past 	bra	  
	 verb-fut 	bra	  
bran	 verb-pres 	bran	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To saturate with water, to moisten ; 1. To pour water. 2. To strew ; To make wet by pouring water something on it ; 1. To scatter, disperse. 2. To give, provide ;
bran(d)	 verb-past 	bran	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To saturate with water, to moisten ; 1. To pour water. 2. To strew ; To make wet by pouring water something on it ; 1. To scatter, disperse. 2. To give, provide ;
bran	 verb-fut 	bran	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To saturate with water, to moisten ; 1. To pour water. 2. To strew ; To make wet by pouring water something on it ; 1. To scatter, disperse. 2. To give, provide ;
brin	 verb-pres 	brin	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be sold, to be demanded ; To make money, for buyers to be plentiful ; To sell, market ;
brin(d)	 verb-past 	brin	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be sold, to be demanded ; To make money, for buyers to be plentiful ; To sell, market ;
brin	 verb-fut 	brin	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be sold, to be demanded ; To make money, for buyers to be plentiful ; To sell, market ;
brug	 verb-pres 	brug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To flow, stream out, gush forth ; To be increased, to be full, to be filled with ; For water to suddenly rise ; For water to naturally increase, fill ;
brugs	 verb-past 	brug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To flow, stream out, gush forth ; To be increased, to be full, to be filled with ; For water to suddenly rise ; For water to naturally increase, fill ;
brug	 verb-fut 	brug	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To flow, stream out, gush forth ; To be increased, to be full, to be filled with ; For water to suddenly rise ; For water to naturally increase, fill ;
bre	 verb-pres 	bre	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To stretch out (a canopy &c.) across the top of something ; To spread, lay out, cover, adorn, connect together ;
bres	 verb-past 	bre	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To stretch out (a canopy &c.) across the top of something ; To spread, lay out, cover, adorn, connect together ;
bre	 verb-fut 	bre	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To stretch out (a canopy &c.) across the top of something ; To spread, lay out, cover, adorn, connect together ;
bred	 verb-pres 	bred	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be alarmed, depressed at heart, to be dejected, to be ashamed ; To fear, be afraid of ;
bred	 verb-past 	bred	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be alarmed, depressed at heart, to be dejected, to be ashamed ; To fear, be afraid of ;
bred	 verb-fut 	bred	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be alarmed, depressed at heart, to be dejected, to be ashamed ; To fear, be afraid of ;
brel	 verb-pres 	brel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be busy, engaged, to have business ; To be busy with, to hurry, hasten ; [To be busy] ; To be occupied, busy ;
brel(d)	 verb-past 	brel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be busy, engaged, to have business ; To be busy with, to hurry, hasten ; [To be busy] ; To be occupied, busy ;
brel	 verb-fut 	brel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be busy, engaged, to have business ; To be busy with, to hurry, hasten ; [To be busy] ; To be occupied, busy ;
bro	 verb-pres 	bro	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To swear, take an oath. 2. To taste, to get enjoyment of. 3. (in Center) To desire, to wish ; To taste, experience in a taste ; 1. To have direct experience, mentally appear. 2. To experience with the nose or tongue ; 1. To desire. 2. To arise, experience ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Hahn 1973: 440) ."]}
bro	 verb-past 	bro	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To swear, take an oath. 2. To taste, to get enjoyment of. 3. (in Center) To desire, to wish ; To taste, experience in a taste ; 1. To have direct experience, mentally appear. 2. To experience with the nose or tongue ; 1. To desire. 2. To arise, experience ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Hahn 1973: 440) ."]}
bro	 verb-fut 	bro	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To swear, take an oath. 2. To taste, to get enjoyment of. 3. (in Center) To desire, to wish ; To taste, experience in a taste ; 1. To have direct experience, mentally appear. 2. To experience with the nose or tongue ; 1. To desire. 2. To arise, experience ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Hahn 1973: 440) ."]}
brod	 verb-pres 	brod	Intransitive:   To be joyful, to enjoy ;
brod	 verb-past 	brod	Intransitive:   To be joyful, to enjoy ;
brod	 verb-fut 	brod	Intransitive:   To be joyful, to enjoy ;
blag	 verb-pres 	blag	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To attend to, to hearken to, to lean toward, to permit. 2. To shed tears (Jä) ; (only used with ; To give, lend one's ear; to listen to ; 1. To hear by mentally concentrating, lending one's ear. 2. To cry ; 1. To lend one's ear to a saying, listen. 2. To give off, shed ;
blags	 verb-past 	blag	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To attend to, to hearken to, to lean toward, to permit. 2. To shed tears (Jä) ; (only used with ; To give, lend one's ear; to listen to ; 1. To hear by mentally concentrating, lending one's ear. 2. To cry ; 1. To lend one's ear to a saying, listen. 2. To give off, shed ;
blag	 verb-fut 	blag	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To attend to, to hearken to, to lean toward, to permit. 2. To shed tears (Jä) ; (only used with ; To give, lend one's ear; to listen to ; 1. To hear by mentally concentrating, lending one's ear. 2. To cry ; 1. To lend one's ear to a saying, listen. 2. To give off, shed ;
blad	 verb-pres 	blad	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To chew ; To chew cud, to chew ; (archaic) To chew ; To chew, grind, suck on ; Compare ldad
blad	 verb-past 	blad	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To chew ; To chew cud, to chew ; (archaic) To chew ; To chew, grind, suck on ; Compare ldad
blad	 verb-fut 	blad	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To chew ; To chew cud, to chew ; (archaic) To chew ; To chew, grind, suck on ; Compare ldad
blas	 verb-pres 	blas	Transitive:   (for a soft, thin thing) To connect by plaiting together many strands ; Compare sla
blas	 verb-past 	blas	Transitive:   (for a soft, thin thing) To connect by plaiting together many strands ; Compare sla
blas	 verb-fut 	blas	Transitive:   (for a soft, thin thing) To connect by plaiting together many strands ; Compare sla
blu	 verb-pres 	blu	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To ransom, redeem (a pawn, pledge, or security) ; To buy back, redeem; to redeem [the] life of a man, animal by paying some money; to ransom ; (honorific) To buy ; To buy something previously relied upon, (particularly) to buy for a religious purpose ; Compare the noun glud
blus	 verb-past 	blu	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To ransom, redeem (a pawn, pledge, or security) ; To buy back, redeem; to redeem [the] life of a man, animal by paying some money; to ransom ; (honorific) To buy ; To buy something previously relied upon, (particularly) to buy for a religious purpose ; Compare the noun glud
blu	 verb-fut 	blu	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To ransom, redeem (a pawn, pledge, or security) ; To buy back, redeem; to redeem [the] life of a man, animal by paying some money; to ransom ; (honorific) To buy ; To buy something previously relied upon, (particularly) to buy for a religious purpose ; Compare the noun glud
blong	 verb-pres 	blong	  1. To become nervous, to be mentally unsettled, to be uneasy. 2. To get bored, become dull ;
blongs	 verb-past 	blong	  1. To become nervous, to be mentally unsettled, to be uneasy. 2. To get bored, become dull ;
blong	 verb-fut 	blong	  1. To become nervous, to be mentally unsettled, to be uneasy. 2. To get bored, become dull ;
Present (?):	 verb-pres 	blod	  To counsel, discuss, place ;
	 verb-past 	blod	  To counsel, discuss, place ;
	 verb-fut 	blod	  To counsel, discuss, place ;
blon	 verb-pres 	blon	  (archaic) To advise ; 1. To face inward, to send hither, to lead. 2. To support, establish, help ; Compare glan
bland 	 verb-past 	blon	  (archaic) To advise ; 1. To face inward, to send hither, to lead. 2. To support, establish, help ; Compare glan
blan	 verb-fut 	blon	  (archaic) To advise ; 1. To face inward, to send hither, to lead. 2. To support, establish, help ; Compare glan
dbang	 verb-pres 	dbang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To own, to belong, to have a right ; To lay out, arrange, place, assemble, to use, to be available for use ; To own, to have, to be able ;
dbang	 verb-past 	dbang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To own, to belong, to have a right ; To lay out, arrange, place, assemble, to use, to be available for use ; To own, to have, to be able ;
dbang	 verb-fut 	dbang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To own, to belong, to have a right ; To lay out, arrange, place, assemble, to use, to be available for use ; To own, to have, to be able ;
dbur	 verb-pres 	dbur	Transitive:  Voluntary:  (also ; To rub, scrape ; 1. To crush finely. 2. To smooth, level ;
dbur(d)	 verb-past 	dbur	Transitive:  Voluntary:  (also ; To rub, scrape ; 1. To crush finely. 2. To smooth, level ;
dbur	 verb-fut 	dbur	Transitive:  Voluntary:  (also ; To rub, scrape ; 1. To crush finely. 2. To smooth, level ;
dbul	 verb-pres 	dbul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To be bereft of wealth. 2. To have few or no good qualities &c. ; To be destitute, bereft of wealth ;
dbul(d)	 verb-past 	dbul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To be bereft of wealth. 2. To have few or no good qualities &c. ; To be destitute, bereft of wealth ;
dbul	 verb-fut 	dbul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To be bereft of wealth. 2. To have few or no good qualities &c. ; To be destitute, bereft of wealth ;
dben	 verb-pres 	dben	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To become empty, to be empty, to be without ; To lack, to have few ; To be empty, to lack ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15)"]}
dben(d)	 verb-past 	dben	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To become empty, to be empty, to be without ; To lack, to have few ; To be empty, to lack ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15)"]}
dben	 verb-fut 	dben	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To become empty, to be empty, to be without ; To lack, to have few ; To be empty, to lack ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15)"]}
dbol	 verb-pres 	dbol	  To draw up water from a tank ; To discharge water from a pond, to let out water through a hole of a pond, to pierce ;
dbol(d)	 verb-past 	dbol	  To draw up water from a tank ; To discharge water from a pond, to let out water through a hole of a pond, to pierce ;
dbol	 verb-fut 	dbol	  To draw up water from a tank ; To discharge water from a pond, to let out water through a hole of a pond, to pierce ;
dbos	 verb-pres 	dbos	Intransitive:   To become larger in size ; Compare 'bo
dbos	 verb-past 	dbos	Intransitive:   To become larger in size ; Compare 'bo
dbos	 verb-fut 	dbos	Intransitive:   To become larger in size ; Compare 'bo
dbyin	 verb-pres 	dbyin	  To incite, instigate, set on ;
	 verb-past 	dbyin	  To incite, instigate, set on ;
	 verb-fut 	dbyin	  To incite, instigate, set on ;
dbyug	 verb-pres 	dbyug	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To swing, brandish, throw, cast, fling (Jä) ; To throw, to cast, to give up, to bend with a stick ; To move back and forth something with an elongated shape ; 1. To hurl, strike, jab. 2. To throw out, abandon ; Compare g.yug
dbyugs	 verb-past 	dbyug	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To swing, brandish, throw, cast, fling (Jä) ; To throw, to cast, to give up, to bend with a stick ; To move back and forth something with an elongated shape ; 1. To hurl, strike, jab. 2. To throw out, abandon ; Compare g.yug
dbyug	 verb-fut 	dbyug	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To swing, brandish, throw, cast, fling (Jä) ; To throw, to cast, to give up, to bend with a stick ; To move back and forth something with an elongated shape ; 1. To hurl, strike, jab. 2. To throw out, abandon ; Compare g.yug
dbyung	 verb-pres 	dbyung	   Compare 'byin
dbyung	 verb-past 	dbyung	   Compare 'byin
dbyung	 verb-fut 	dbyung	   Compare 'byin
dbye	 verb-pres 	dbye	Transitive:   To make distinctions, to differentiate ; To separate into groups because of some ordinary characteristic ; According to (Rdo. 46) the present of phye
dbye	 verb-past 	dbye	Transitive:   To make distinctions, to differentiate ; To separate into groups because of some ordinary characteristic ; According to (Rdo. 46) the present of phye
dbye	 verb-fut 	dbye	Transitive:   To make distinctions, to differentiate ; To separate into groups because of some ordinary characteristic ; According to (Rdo. 46) the present of phye
dbyen	 verb-pres 	dbyen	  {:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15)"]}
dbyen(d)	 verb-past 	dbyen	  {:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15)"]}
dbyen	 verb-fut 	dbyen	  {:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 84 n. 15)"]}
dbrog	 verb-pres 	dbrog	  To forget ;
	 verb-past 	dbrog	  To forget ;
	 verb-fut 	dbrog	  To forget ;
dbrol	 verb-pres 	dbrol	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  1. To individually divide. 2. To puncture, tear. 3. To sever a connection ; To tear ;
dbral(d)	 verb-past 	dbrol	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  1. To individually divide. 2. To puncture, tear. 3. To sever a connection ; To tear ;
dbral	 verb-fut 	dbrol	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  1. To individually divide. 2. To puncture, tear. 3. To sever a connection ; To tear ;
'bags	 verb-pres 	'bags	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To defile, pollute one's self, to soil, make filthy. 2. (Central) To take away, to steal, rob ; To be polluted, to be defiled, to become impure, to be defective ; To mix with something else, to make unclear ; 1. To be polluted, defiled. 2. To use up ; Compare 'phog
dbags	 verb-past 	'bags	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To defile, pollute one's self, to soil, make filthy. 2. (Central) To take away, to steal, rob ; To be polluted, to be defiled, to become impure, to be defective ; To mix with something else, to make unclear ; 1. To be polluted, defiled. 2. To use up ; Compare 'phog
dbag	 verb-fut 	'bags	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To defile, pollute one's self, to soil, make filthy. 2. (Central) To take away, to steal, rob ; To be polluted, to be defiled, to become impure, to be defective ; To mix with something else, to make unclear ; 1. To be polluted, defiled. 2. To use up ; Compare 'phog
'bang	 verb-pres 	'bang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To get wet, to become wet, to be saturated, soak ; For a thing to be soaked in a liquid and the inside of that thing to saturate with water ; To become naturally wet ;
bangs	 verb-past 	'bang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To get wet, to become wet, to be saturated, soak ; For a thing to be soaked in a liquid and the inside of that thing to saturate with water ; To become naturally wet ;
'bang	 verb-fut 	'bang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To get wet, to become wet, to be saturated, soak ; For a thing to be soaked in a liquid and the inside of that thing to saturate with water ; To become naturally wet ;
'bang	 verb-pres 	'bang	  To love, regard ;
'bangs	 verb-past 	'bang	  To love, regard ;
	 verb-fut 	'bang	  To love, regard ;
'bad	 verb-pres 	'bad	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  1. To endeavor, to try, to exert one's self, make effort. 2. To cultivate, rear, take care of ; To try, to endeavor ; To strive for a goal with great effort of speech and body ; To strive, exert effort ; Compare 'bung
'bad	 verb-past 	'bad	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  1. To endeavor, to try, to exert one's self, make effort. 2. To cultivate, rear, take care of ; To try, to endeavor ; To strive for a goal with great effort of speech and body ; To strive, exert effort ; Compare 'bung
'bad	 verb-fut 	'bad	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  1. To endeavor, to try, to exert one's self, make effort. 2. To cultivate, rear, take care of ; To try, to endeavor ; To strive for a goal with great effort of speech and body ; To strive, exert effort ; Compare 'bung
'bab	 verb-pres 	'bab	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  1. To move downward, to descend, to come down from, to alight, to fall down ; To rain, to climb down ; 1. To go, fall from a higher place to a lower. 2. To rain. 3. To become smaller, fewer. 4. To understand, rise in the mind. 5. To be agreeable, pleasant. 6. To be established, arise. 7. To take responsibility for establishing an action. 8. To obtain, arrive in hand ; 1. To fall from high to low. 2. To arrive ;
babs	 verb-past 	'bab	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  1. To move downward, to descend, to come down from, to alight, to fall down ; To rain, to climb down ; 1. To go, fall from a higher place to a lower. 2. To rain. 3. To become smaller, fewer. 4. To understand, rise in the mind. 5. To be agreeable, pleasant. 6. To be established, arise. 7. To take responsibility for establishing an action. 8. To obtain, arrive in hand ; 1. To fall from high to low. 2. To arrive ;
bab	 verb-fut 	'bab	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  1. To move downward, to descend, to come down from, to alight, to fall down ; To rain, to climb down ; 1. To go, fall from a higher place to a lower. 2. To rain. 3. To become smaller, fewer. 4. To understand, rise in the mind. 5. To be agreeable, pleasant. 6. To be established, arise. 7. To take responsibility for establishing an action. 8. To obtain, arrive in hand ; 1. To fall from high to low. 2. To arrive ;
'bab	 verb-pres 	'bab	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To get off, dismount ;
bab	 verb-past 	'bab	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To get off, dismount ;
'bab	 verb-fut 	'bab	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To get off, dismount ;
'ba'	 verb-pres 	'ba'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To bleat. 2. (in Sikkim) To bring, to carry. 3. (central) To commit adultery (Jä)  ; To make the sound of a sheep or goat ; (for a sheep) To speak ;onomatopœtic.
'ba'	 verb-past 	'ba'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To bleat. 2. (in Sikkim) To bring, to carry. 3. (central) To commit adultery (Jä)  ; To make the sound of a sheep or goat ; (for a sheep) To speak ;onomatopœtic.
'ba'	 verb-fut 	'ba'	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To bleat. 2. (in Sikkim) To bring, to carry. 3. (central) To commit adultery (Jä)  ; To make the sound of a sheep or goat ; (for a sheep) To speak ;onomatopœtic.
'bar	 verb-pres 	'bar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To catch fire, to become ignited, to blaze. 2. (in reference to the passions) To glare, burn with wrath. 3. To burst forth into bloom, to blossom, to blare forth into fame, to become notorious ; To blaze up, to catch fire, to increase ; 1. For tongues of fire to raise from a burning thing. 2. To spread (of light). 3. To spread, grow ; 1. For tongues of fire to raise from a burning thing. 2. To spread. 3. To scold ;
'bar(d)	 verb-past 	'bar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To catch fire, to become ignited, to blaze. 2. (in reference to the passions) To glare, burn with wrath. 3. To burst forth into bloom, to blossom, to blare forth into fame, to become notorious ; To blaze up, to catch fire, to increase ; 1. For tongues of fire to raise from a burning thing. 2. To spread (of light). 3. To spread, grow ; 1. For tongues of fire to raise from a burning thing. 2. To spread. 3. To scold ;
'bar	 verb-fut 	'bar	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To catch fire, to become ignited, to blaze. 2. (in reference to the passions) To glare, burn with wrath. 3. To burst forth into bloom, to blossom, to blare forth into fame, to become notorious ; To blaze up, to catch fire, to increase ; 1. For tongues of fire to raise from a burning thing. 2. To spread (of light). 3. To spread, grow ; 1. For tongues of fire to raise from a burning thing. 2. To spread. 3. To scold ;
'bal	 verb-pres 	'bal	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To throw about, to pluck out the hair (used only with ; To pluck out hair, to mingle, to loose ; To pull from the root ; To pluck, card ;
'bal(d)	 verb-past 	'bal	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To throw about, to pluck out the hair (used only with ; To pluck out hair, to mingle, to loose ; To pull from the root ; To pluck, card ;
'bal	 verb-fut 	'bal	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To throw about, to pluck out the hair (used only with ; To pluck out hair, to mingle, to loose ; To pull from the root ; To pluck, card ;
'big	 verb-pres 	'big	  To be pierced, to be penetrated ; Compare 'bigs
big	 verb-past 	'big	  To be pierced, to be penetrated ; Compare 'bigs
'big	 verb-fut 	'big	  To be pierced, to be penetrated ; Compare 'bigs
'bigs	 verb-pres 	'bigs	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To pierce a hole in something ; To pierce ; Compare 'big
phug	 verb-past 	'bigs	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To pierce a hole in something ; To pierce ; Compare 'big
dbug	 verb-fut 	'bigs	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To pierce a hole in something ; To pierce ; Compare 'big
'bigs	 verb-pres 	'bigs	 Voluntary:  1. To pierce, pierce into, bore. 2. (in Central, vulgar) To lie with a woman ; To pierce into, to hollow out ; Compare 'bigs
phigs	 verb-past 	'bigs	 Voluntary:  1. To pierce, pierce into, bore. 2. (in Central, vulgar) To lie with a woman ; To pierce into, to hollow out ; Compare 'bigs
dbig	 verb-fut 	'bigs	 Voluntary:  1. To pierce, pierce into, bore. 2. (in Central, vulgar) To lie with a woman ; To pierce into, to hollow out ; Compare 'bigs
'bu	 verb-pres 	'bu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  (especially with ; To blossom, to open into flowers ; To sprout from a seed into a seedling ; To newly open up ;
'bus	 verb-past 	'bu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  (especially with ; To blossom, to open into flowers ; To sprout from a seed into a seedling ; To newly open up ;
'bu	 verb-fut 	'bu	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  (especially with ; To blossom, to open into flowers ; To sprout from a seed into a seedling ; To newly open up ;
'bug	 verb-pres 	'bug	  To be pierced, penetrated ; To be turned upside down, reversed ; Compare 'bigs
bug	 verb-past 	'bug	  To be pierced, penetrated ; To be turned upside down, reversed ; Compare 'bigs
'bug	 verb-fut 	'bug	  To be pierced, penetrated ; To be turned upside down, reversed ; Compare 'bigs
'bugs	 verb-pres 	'bugs	  To hollow out, bore, to pierce, sting, bite ; To pierce into, to hollow out ; Compare 'bigs
phug	 verb-past 	'bugs	  To hollow out, bore, to pierce, sting, bite ; To pierce into, to hollow out ; Compare 'bigs
dbug	 verb-fut 	'bugs	  To hollow out, bore, to pierce, sting, bite ; To pierce into, to hollow out ; Compare 'bigs
'bungs	 verb-pres 	'bung	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To concentrate one's force or energies ; To try, to endeavor ; To be eager, strive ; To strive, be diligent ;  Compare 'bad
'bungs	 verb-past 	'bung	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To concentrate one's force or energies ; To try, to endeavor ; To be eager, strive ; To strive, be diligent ;  Compare 'bad
'bung	 verb-fut 	'bung	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To concentrate one's force or energies ; To try, to endeavor ; To be eager, strive ; To strive, be diligent ;  Compare 'bad
'bud	 verb-pres 	'bud	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  (perhaps limited to West) 1. To fall from, drop, fall down. 2. To fall off (of leaves), to fall through. 3. To go away, to leave, escape, to disappear, to be lost ; To go out, to be exclusive ; 1. To come out. 2. To reach, arrive at, ascend. 3. To be clear, obvious ; Take out, draw out, expel ;
bud	 verb-past 	'bud	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  (perhaps limited to West) 1. To fall from, drop, fall down. 2. To fall off (of leaves), to fall through. 3. To go away, to leave, escape, to disappear, to be lost ; To go out, to be exclusive ; 1. To come out. 2. To reach, arrive at, ascend. 3. To be clear, obvious ; Take out, draw out, expel ;
bud	 verb-fut 	'bud	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  (perhaps limited to West) 1. To fall from, drop, fall down. 2. To fall off (of leaves), to fall through. 3. To go away, to leave, escape, to disappear, to be lost ; To go out, to be exclusive ; 1. To come out. 2. To reach, arrive at, ascend. 3. To be clear, obvious ; Take out, draw out, expel ;
'bud	 verb-pres 	'bud	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To blow (with the mouth). 2. To be blown (by the wind) ; To blow with the mouth, blow with a blower ;. 1. To make a sound by blowing in the hollow of a conch &c. 2. To set a flame on the hearth ; 1. To make [a sound with a conch]. 2. To set a fire ;
bus	 verb-past 	'bud	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To blow (with the mouth). 2. To be blown (by the wind) ; To blow with the mouth, blow with a blower ;. 1. To make a sound by blowing in the hollow of a conch &c. 2. To set a flame on the hearth ; 1. To make [a sound with a conch]. 2. To set a fire ;
'bud	 verb-fut 	'bud	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To blow (with the mouth). 2. To be blown (by the wind) ; To blow with the mouth, blow with a blower ;. 1. To make a sound by blowing in the hollow of a conch &c. 2. To set a flame on the hearth ; 1. To make [a sound with a conch]. 2. To set a fire ;
'bud	 verb-pres 	'bud	Transitive:  1. To put off, pull off, take off (hat, coat, ring &c.). 2. (with accusative of person and place) To drive out, expel, cast out, chase away. 3. To pull out, tear out, uproot. 4. To take away, subtract from (Jä) ; To take off, expel, to push out, push aside, to take forth from the rest ; Compare 'phud
phud	 verb-past 	'bud	Transitive:  1. To put off, pull off, take off (hat, coat, ring &c.). 2. (with accusative of person and place) To drive out, expel, cast out, chase away. 3. To pull out, tear out, uproot. 4. To take away, subtract from (Jä) ; To take off, expel, to push out, push aside, to take forth from the rest ; Compare 'phud
dbud	 verb-fut 	'bud	Transitive:  1. To put off, pull off, take off (hat, coat, ring &c.). 2. (with accusative of person and place) To drive out, expel, cast out, chase away. 3. To pull out, tear out, uproot. 4. To take away, subtract from (Jä) ; To take off, expel, to push out, push aside, to take forth from the rest ; Compare 'phud
'bun	 verb-pres 	'bun	  To itch ;
	 verb-past 	'bun	  To itch ;
	 verb-fut 	'bun	  To itch ;
'bub	 verb-pres 	'bub	  1. To be turned over, upside down. 2. To be overthrown, destroyed, spoiled (with regard to meditation) (Mil.) (Jä) ; To be reversed upside down ;
bub	 verb-past 	'bub	  1. To be turned over, upside down. 2. To be overthrown, destroyed, spoiled (with regard to meditation) (Mil.) (Jä) ; To be reversed upside down ;
'bub	 verb-fut 	'bub	  1. To be turned over, upside down. 2. To be overthrown, destroyed, spoiled (with regard to meditation) (Mil.) (Jä) ; To be reversed upside down ;
'bubs	 verb-pres 	'bubs	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To put on a roof, something for a roof (Jä) ; To set up, pitch ; To pitch ; To put a cover on top of a house. 2. To stretch, fill ; 1. [To erect, establish, put up]. 2. To cover ; Compare 'phibs
phub	 verb-past 	'bubs	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To put on a roof, something for a roof (Jä) ; To set up, pitch ; To pitch ; To put a cover on top of a house. 2. To stretch, fill ; 1. [To erect, establish, put up]. 2. To cover ; Compare 'phibs
dbub	 verb-fut 	'bubs	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To put on a roof, something for a roof (Jä) ; To set up, pitch ; To pitch ; To put a cover on top of a house. 2. To stretch, fill ; 1. [To erect, establish, put up]. 2. To cover ; Compare 'phibs
'bur	 verb-pres 	'bur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To rise, to swell up, become prominent. 2. To spring up, come forth, bud, unfold ; To rise, swell up, to come out a part, to come up one's head [sic] ; To rise up higher than the level of an even surface ; To naturally rise higher ;
'bur(d)	 verb-past 	'bur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To rise, to swell up, become prominent. 2. To spring up, come forth, bud, unfold ; To rise, swell up, to come out a part, to come up one's head [sic] ; To rise up higher than the level of an even surface ; To naturally rise higher ;
'bur	 verb-fut 	'bur	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To rise, to swell up, become prominent. 2. To spring up, come forth, bud, unfold ; To rise, swell up, to come out a part, to come up one's head [sic] ; To rise up higher than the level of an even surface ; To naturally rise higher ;
'bul	 verb-pres 	'bul	Transitive:  Voluntary:  (humble) To give, proffer, send ; To offer, give, send a letter, a present &c. ;
phul	 verb-past 	'bul	Transitive:  Voluntary:  (humble) To give, proffer, send ; To offer, give, send a letter, a present &c. ;
dbul	 verb-fut 	'bul	Transitive:  Voluntary:  (humble) To give, proffer, send ; To offer, give, send a letter, a present &c. ;
'bebs	 verb-pres 	'bebs	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To cause to descend, cause to fall down. 2. To cast down, throw down. 3. To assign, settle, fix, lay down, establish ; To bring down, cause to come down ; 1. To proclaim a discourse. 2. To determine, ascertain. 3. To make lower, make fewer. 4. To calm down.  5. To make descend from a high place to a low place. 6. To make stay, remain. 7. (prefixed by the phrase ; 1. To make come down. 2. To determine, ascertain ;
phab	 verb-past 	'bebs	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To cause to descend, cause to fall down. 2. To cast down, throw down. 3. To assign, settle, fix, lay down, establish ; To bring down, cause to come down ; 1. To proclaim a discourse. 2. To determine, ascertain. 3. To make lower, make fewer. 4. To calm down.  5. To make descend from a high place to a low place. 6. To make stay, remain. 7. (prefixed by the phrase ; 1. To make come down. 2. To determine, ascertain ;
dbab	 verb-fut 	'bebs	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To cause to descend, cause to fall down. 2. To cast down, throw down. 3. To assign, settle, fix, lay down, establish ; To bring down, cause to come down ; 1. To proclaim a discourse. 2. To determine, ascertain. 3. To make lower, make fewer. 4. To calm down.  5. To make descend from a high place to a low place. 6. To make stay, remain. 7. (prefixed by the phrase ; 1. To make come down. 2. To determine, ascertain ;
'bo	 verb-pres 	'bo	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To pour out, pour forth, spill out. 2. To swell up, to rise. 3. To sprout, shoot forth (of wild growing plants) ; To pour out, to spill out ; To throw liquid from a vessel ; To throw out ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
dbos	 verb-past 	'bo	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To pour out, pour forth, spill out. 2. To swell up, to rise. 3. To sprout, shoot forth (of wild growing plants) ; To pour out, to spill out ; To throw liquid from a vessel ; To throw out ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
dbo	 verb-fut 	'bo	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To pour out, pour forth, spill out. 2. To swell up, to rise. 3. To sprout, shoot forth (of wild growing plants) ; To pour out, to spill out ; To throw liquid from a vessel ; To throw out ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
bo	 verb-pres 	'bo	 Involuntary: 1. To expand as a bubble. 2. To overflow, fall out of a vessel on account of over-filling ;  To spill out, to fall out liquid, to overflow [sic] ; (for a cup &c.) To spill ;
bo	 verb-past 	'bo	 Involuntary: 1. To expand as a bubble. 2. To overflow, fall out of a vessel on account of over-filling ;  To spill out, to fall out liquid, to overflow [sic] ; (for a cup &c.) To spill ;
'bo	 verb-fut 	'bo	 Involuntary: 1. To expand as a bubble. 2. To overflow, fall out of a vessel on account of over-filling ;  To spill out, to fall out liquid, to overflow [sic] ; (for a cup &c.) To spill ;
'bog	 verb-pres 	'bog	Transitive: Voluntary:  To cross, exceed ;
'bogs	 verb-past 	'bog	Transitive: Voluntary:  To cross, exceed ;
'bog	 verb-fut 	'bog	Transitive: Voluntary:  To cross, exceed ;
'bogs	 verb-pres 	'bog	Intransitive: Involuntary:  1. To faint. 2. To grow loose, to come off, to drop off (leaves from a tree) (Jä) ; To faint, to become unconscious, to become insane ; To faint, be intoxicated ; 1. To faint, fall unconscious. 2. To fall ;
bog	 verb-past 	'bog	Intransitive: Involuntary:  1. To faint. 2. To grow loose, to come off, to drop off (leaves from a tree) (Jä) ; To faint, to become unconscious, to become insane ; To faint, be intoxicated ; 1. To faint, fall unconscious. 2. To fall ;
dbog	 verb-fut 	'bog	Intransitive: Involuntary:  1. To faint. 2. To grow loose, to come off, to drop off (leaves from a tree) (Jä) ; To faint, to become unconscious, to become insane ; To faint, be intoxicated ; 1. To faint, fall unconscious. 2. To fall ;
'bogs	 verb-pres 	'bogs	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To bestow, impart. 2. (in West) To be extracted, uprooted, pulled out, to be dislocated, unhinged. 3. To unload ; 1. To put something at a place, put something on a place. 2. To give responsibility, give, bestow ; 1. To take down an ornament, burden. 2. To lead another with good qualities or advice ; 1. To give. 2. (archaic) To strive, exert ;
phog	 verb-past 	'bogs	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To bestow, impart. 2. (in West) To be extracted, uprooted, pulled out, to be dislocated, unhinged. 3. To unload ; 1. To put something at a place, put something on a place. 2. To give responsibility, give, bestow ; 1. To take down an ornament, burden. 2. To lead another with good qualities or advice ; 1. To give. 2. (archaic) To strive, exert ;
dbog	 verb-fut 	'bogs	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To bestow, impart. 2. (in West) To be extracted, uprooted, pulled out, to be dislocated, unhinged. 3. To unload ; 1. To put something at a place, put something on a place. 2. To give responsibility, give, bestow ; 1. To take down an ornament, burden. 2. To lead another with good qualities or advice ; 1. To give. 2. (archaic) To strive, exert ;
'bod	 verb-pres 	'bod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To call, to cry out, to invite ; To call, to call out, to call by name, invite ; To signal to summon hither ; To summon another vocally, invite a guest ;
bos	 verb-past 	'bod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To call, to cry out, to invite ; To call, to call out, to call by name, invite ; To signal to summon hither ; To summon another vocally, invite a guest ;
bod	 verb-fut 	'bod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To call, to cry out, to invite ; To call, to call out, to call by name, invite ; To signal to summon hither ; To summon another vocally, invite a guest ;
'bor	 verb-pres 	'bor	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  1. To throw, cast, fling. 2. To leave, forsake ; To throw away, to give up, to cast aside ; 1. To lose something. 2. To throw away, be rid of.  3. To say, do ; To abandon, throw out ;
bor	 verb-past 	'bor	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  1. To throw, cast, fling. 2. To leave, forsake ; To throw away, to give up, to cast aside ; 1. To lose something. 2. To throw away, be rid of.  3. To say, do ; To abandon, throw out ;
bor	 verb-fut 	'bor	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  1. To throw, cast, fling. 2. To leave, forsake ; To throw away, to give up, to cast aside ; 1. To lose something. 2. To throw away, be rid of.  3. To say, do ; To abandon, throw out ;
'byongs	 verb-pres 	'byang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To clean ; To be purified, to be cleaned, be washed, to be used to ; 1. To purify. 2. To empty the stomach and intestines of digested food ; 1. To purify, pacify. 2. To be wise, to concentrate. 3. To have diarrhea, defecate ; Compare 'byong
byangs	 verb-past 	'byang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To clean ; To be purified, to be cleaned, be washed, to be used to ; 1. To purify. 2. To empty the stomach and intestines of digested food ; 1. To purify, pacify. 2. To be wise, to concentrate. 3. To have diarrhea, defecate ; Compare 'byong
'byang	 verb-fut 	'byang	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To clean ; To be purified, to be cleaned, be washed, to be used to ; 1. To purify. 2. To empty the stomach and intestines of digested food ; 1. To purify, pacify. 2. To be wise, to concentrate. 3. To have diarrhea, defecate ; Compare 'byong
'byam	 verb-pres 	'byam	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To flow over, to spread about ; To be unlimited, to be limitless, to be with out end, to spread over ; To spread larger, to pervade ; 1. To increase, to pervade. 2. To last, continue, elapse ;
'byams	 verb-past 	'byam	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To flow over, to spread about ; To be unlimited, to be limitless, to be with out end, to spread over ; To spread larger, to pervade ; 1. To increase, to pervade. 2. To last, continue, elapse ;
'byam	 verb-fut 	'byam	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To flow over, to spread about ; To be unlimited, to be limitless, to be with out end, to spread over ; To spread larger, to pervade ; 1. To increase, to pervade. 2. To last, continue, elapse ;
'byi	 verb-pres 	'byi	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To be wiped out, effaced. 2. To fall off (of the hair) (Jä) ; To disappear one's hair by falling off [sic], to disappear or vanish, to be effaced, be wiped off ; For hair to fall off of a creature's body ; To come out (for head hair, body hair &c) ;
byi	 verb-past 	'byi	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To be wiped out, effaced. 2. To fall off (of the hair) (Jä) ; To disappear one's hair by falling off [sic], to disappear or vanish, to be effaced, be wiped off ; For hair to fall off of a creature's body ; To come out (for head hair, body hair &c) ;
'byi	 verb-fut 	'byi	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To be wiped out, effaced. 2. To fall off (of the hair) (Jä) ; To disappear one's hair by falling off [sic], to disappear or vanish, to be effaced, be wiped off ; For hair to fall off of a creature's body ; To come out (for head hair, body hair &c) ;
'bying	 verb-pres 	'bying	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To sink in, to sink down. 2. To grow faint, languid, remiss ; To sink down, to go down under the surface of water, to be merged ; To sink into mud and water ; 1. To sink. 2. To be soiled, unclean ;
bying	 verb-past 	'bying	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To sink in, to sink down. 2. To grow faint, languid, remiss ; To sink down, to go down under the surface of water, to be merged ; To sink into mud and water ; 1. To sink. 2. To be soiled, unclean ;
'bying	 verb-fut 	'bying	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To sink in, to sink down. 2. To grow faint, languid, remiss ; To sink down, to go down under the surface of water, to be merged ; To sink into mud and water ; 1. To sink. 2. To be soiled, unclean ;
'byid	 verb-pres 	'byid	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  [To suffice, be enough] ; To suffice for living, to live, to be accomplished in one's life ; To have an accomplished life ;  To be sufficient, complete ;
phyid	 verb-past 	'byid	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  [To suffice, be enough] ; To suffice for living, to live, to be accomplished in one's life ; To have an accomplished life ;  To be sufficient, complete ;
'byid	 verb-fut 	'byid	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  [To suffice, be enough] ; To suffice for living, to live, to be accomplished in one's life ; To have an accomplished life ;  To be sufficient, complete ;
'byid	 verb-pres 	'byid	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To wipe off, remove, efface ; To wipe off, to erase, scrap out ; To purify the smell of something by rubbing and scraping. 2. To erase (a drawing, or presting) ; To purify, erase purposely ;
phyis	 verb-past 	'byid	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To wipe off, remove, efface ; To wipe off, to erase, scrap out ; To purify the smell of something by rubbing and scraping. 2. To erase (a drawing, or presting) ; To purify, erase purposely ;
dbyi	 verb-fut 	'byid	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To wipe off, remove, efface ; To wipe off, to erase, scrap out ; To purify the smell of something by rubbing and scraping. 2. To erase (a drawing, or presting) ; To purify, erase purposely ;
'byid	 verb-pres 	'byid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To glide, slip, disappear, to slip away ; To slip off, to miss one's footing ; To slip, slide, loose footing ; 1. To become naturally purified or erased. 2. For vision or the control of limbs to fail. 3. To slip, slide ;
byid	 verb-past 	'byid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To glide, slip, disappear, to slip away ; To slip off, to miss one's footing ; To slip, slide, loose footing ; 1. To become naturally purified or erased. 2. For vision or the control of limbs to fail. 3. To slip, slide ;
'byid	 verb-fut 	'byid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To glide, slip, disappear, to slip away ; To slip off, to miss one's footing ; To slip, slide, loose footing ; 1. To become naturally purified or erased. 2. For vision or the control of limbs to fail. 3. To slip, slide ;
'byin	 verb-pres 	'byin	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To take out, to remove, cause to come forth, to draw out, pull out (a thorn &c.). 2. To let proceed, to send forth, to emit, to sound forth, to release ; 1. To take out from within. 2. To drive out, expel. 3. To take from a obscure place to an apparent place. 4. To originate from ; To take out ; Compare dbyung
phyung	 verb-past 	'byin	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To take out, to remove, cause to come forth, to draw out, pull out (a thorn &c.). 2. To let proceed, to send forth, to emit, to sound forth, to release ; 1. To take out from within. 2. To drive out, expel. 3. To take from a obscure place to an apparent place. 4. To originate from ; To take out ; Compare dbyung
dbyung	 verb-fut 	'byin	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To take out, to remove, cause to come forth, to draw out, pull out (a thorn &c.). 2. To let proceed, to send forth, to emit, to sound forth, to release ; 1. To take out from within. 2. To drive out, expel. 3. To take from a obscure place to an apparent place. 4. To originate from ; To take out ; Compare dbyung
'byil(d)	 verb-pres 	'byil	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To bring down loosely, to fall into parts, fall into pieces ; To slip, slide, and fall down ; 1. To spread, smear, anoint. 2. To stroke ;
byil	 verb-past 	'byil	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To bring down loosely, to fall into parts, fall into pieces ; To slip, slide, and fall down ; 1. To spread, smear, anoint. 2. To stroke ;
'byil	 verb-fut 	'byil	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To bring down loosely, to fall into parts, fall into pieces ; To slip, slide, and fall down ; 1. To spread, smear, anoint. 2. To stroke ;
byug	 verb-pres 	'byug	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To wet, moisten, smear, spread over, anoint, apply a salve. 2. To stroke, pat ; To anoint, to apply ; 1. To rub with unguent. 2. To touch ; To rub, smear, apply ;
byugs	 verb-past 	'byug	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To wet, moisten, smear, spread over, anoint, apply a salve. 2. To stroke, pat ; To anoint, to apply ; 1. To rub with unguent. 2. To touch ; To rub, smear, apply ;
byug	 verb-fut 	'byug	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To wet, moisten, smear, spread over, anoint, apply a salve. 2. To stroke, pat ; To anoint, to apply ; 1. To rub with unguent. 2. To touch ; To rub, smear, apply ;
'byung	 verb-pres 	'byung	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To come forth, arise, spring up, to emerge, to appear ; To exist, be, come out, appear ; 1. To exist, change. 2. To take out. 3. To be born. 4. To come out, emerge ; To obtain, exist, be born, descend ;
byung	 verb-past 	'byung	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To come forth, arise, spring up, to emerge, to appear ; To exist, be, come out, appear ; 1. To exist, change. 2. To take out. 3. To be born. 4. To come out, emerge ; To obtain, exist, be born, descend ;
'byung	 verb-fut 	'byung	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To come forth, arise, spring up, to emerge, to appear ; To exist, be, come out, appear ; 1. To exist, change. 2. To take out. 3. To be born. 4. To come out, emerge ; To obtain, exist, be born, descend ;
'bye	 verb-pres 	'bye	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To open. 2. To divide, separate, resolve ; To be opened, to blossom ; To break an adherence, connection ; To become differentiated, separated, open ;
bye	 verb-past 	'bye	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To open. 2. To divide, separate, resolve ; To be opened, to blossom ; To break an adherence, connection ; To become differentiated, separated, open ;
'bye	 verb-fut 	'bye	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To open. 2. To divide, separate, resolve ; To be opened, to blossom ; To break an adherence, connection ; To become differentiated, separated, open ;
'byed	 verb-pres 	'byed	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To open, to place apart, to unloose. 2. (in West) To separate, to keep asunder, to disentangle ; To separate, to distinguish, to keep apart, open ; To open (a door &c.) ; 1. To separate, split. 2. To undo, release ;
phye	 verb-past 	'byed	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To open, to place apart, to unloose. 2. (in West) To separate, to keep asunder, to disentangle ; To separate, to distinguish, to keep apart, open ; To open (a door &c.) ; 1. To separate, split. 2. To undo, release ;
dbye	 verb-fut 	'byed	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To open, to place apart, to unloose. 2. (in West) To separate, to keep asunder, to disentangle ; To separate, to distinguish, to keep apart, open ; To open (a door &c.) ; 1. To separate, split. 2. To undo, release ;
'byer	 verb-pres 	'byer	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To escape by flight, to flee in different directions ; To run away, to disperse, to spread over, to ruin, to decay ; 1. To flee. 2. To spread, pervade ; 1. To flee, disperse. 2. To become widespread ;
byer(d)	 verb-past 	'byer	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To escape by flight, to flee in different directions ; To run away, to disperse, to spread over, to ruin, to decay ; 1. To flee. 2. To spread, pervade ; 1. To flee, disperse. 2. To become widespread ;
byer	 verb-fut 	'byer	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To escape by flight, to flee in different directions ; To run away, to disperse, to spread over, to ruin, to decay ; 1. To flee. 2. To spread, pervade ; 1. To flee, disperse. 2. To become widespread ;
'byes	 verb-pres 	'byes	Intransitive:   (archaic) To clarify a boundary ;
'byes	 verb-past 	'byes	Intransitive:   (archaic) To clarify a boundary ;
'byes	 verb-fut 	'byes	Intransitive:   (archaic) To clarify a boundary ;
'byo	 verb-pres 	'byo	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To pour out, to pour into another vessel (Situ 85) ; To pour out, to spill out ; To pour (water &c.) from high to low. 2. Similar to 'to pour' (e.g. rain) ; To transfer, pour from one vessel to another ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
phyo	 verb-past 	'byo	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To pour out, to pour into another vessel (Situ 85) ; To pour out, to spill out ; To pour (water &c.) from high to low. 2. Similar to 'to pour' (e.g. rain) ; To transfer, pour from one vessel to another ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
byo	 verb-fut 	'byo	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To pour out, to pour into another vessel (Situ 85) ; To pour out, to spill out ; To pour (water &c.) from high to low. 2. Similar to 'to pour' (e.g. rain) ; To transfer, pour from one vessel to another ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 83)"]}
'byog	 verb-pres 	'byog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To lick ;
'byogs	 verb-past 	'byog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To lick ;
'byog	 verb-fut 	'byog	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To lick ;
'byongs	 verb-pres 	'byong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be skilled, well-versed, be full of ; To gain experience through training ; To reach completion, to be talented by training ;
'byangs	 verb-past 	'byong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be skilled, well-versed, be full of ; To gain experience through training ; To reach completion, to be talented by training ;
sbyang	 verb-fut 	'byong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To be skilled, well-versed, be full of ; To gain experience through training ; To reach completion, to be talented by training ;
'byong	 verb-pres 	'byong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To have diarrhea and stomach illness ; Compare 'byang
'byongs	 verb-past 	'byong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To have diarrhea and stomach illness ; Compare 'byang
'byong	 verb-fut 	'byong	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To have diarrhea and stomach illness ; Compare 'byang
'byong	 verb-pres 	'byong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To drink a beverage in large gulps ;
'byangs	 verb-past 	'byong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To drink a beverage in large gulps ;
'byong	 verb-fut 	'byong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To drink a beverage in large gulps ;
'byon	 verb-pres 	'byon	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  (honorific) To come, arrive, go, proceed, set out ; To go, come ; (honorific) To arrive ; To arrive, arise ;
byon	 verb-past 	'byon	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  (honorific) To come, arrive, go, proceed, set out ; To go, come ; (honorific) To arrive ; To arrive, arise ;
'byon	 verb-fut 	'byon	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  (honorific) To come, arrive, go, proceed, set out ; To go, come ; (honorific) To arrive ; To arrive, arise ;
'byon	 verb-pres 	'byon	  To be able, to be capable, to be skillful ;
byon(d)	 verb-past 	'byon	  To be able, to be capable, to be skillful ;
byon	 verb-fut 	'byon	  To be able, to be capable, to be skillful ;
'byor	 verb-pres 	'byor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To stick, adhere to, to take, contract (of diseases). 2. To be prepared, be ready, to have at hand, to prepare, make ready. 3. To agree, acquiesce, consent ; To be attached, to be fastened ; 1. To mutually meet, and become difficult to separate. 2. To hold each other ; To be mutually connected ;
'byar(d)	 verb-past 	'byor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To stick, adhere to, to take, contract (of diseases). 2. To be prepared, be ready, to have at hand, to prepare, make ready. 3. To agree, acquiesce, consent ; To be attached, to be fastened ; 1. To mutually meet, and become difficult to separate. 2. To hold each other ; To be mutually connected ;
'byar	 verb-fut 	'byor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To stick, adhere to, to take, contract (of diseases). 2. To be prepared, be ready, to have at hand, to prepare, make ready. 3. To agree, acquiesce, consent ; To be attached, to be fastened ; 1. To mutually meet, and become difficult to separate. 2. To hold each other ; To be mutually connected ;
'byor	 verb-pres 	'byor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  (honorific) To come, to arrive, to be received ; To arrive, to receive, to reach ; 1. To receive, get. 2. To arrive ; 1. To arrive, receive. 2. To descend, fall ;
'byor(d)	 verb-past 	'byor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  (honorific) To come, to arrive, to be received ; To arrive, to receive, to reach ; 1. To receive, get. 2. To arrive ; 1. To arrive, receive. 2. To descend, fall ;
'byor	 verb-fut 	'byor	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  (honorific) To come, to arrive, to be received ; To arrive, to receive, to reach ; 1. To receive, get. 2. To arrive ; 1. To arrive, receive. 2. To descend, fall ;
'byol	 verb-pres 	'byol	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To mistake, blunder, err, go astray ; To give way, to make way ; To step aside, to avoid, to escape from ; To avoid touching, avoid encountering ; To avoid, shun, flee ;
byol(d)	 verb-past 	'byol	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To mistake, blunder, err, go astray ; To give way, to make way ; To step aside, to avoid, to escape from ; To avoid touching, avoid encountering ; To avoid, shun, flee ;
byol	 verb-fut 	'byol	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To mistake, blunder, err, go astray ; To give way, to make way ; To step aside, to avoid, to escape from ; To avoid touching, avoid encountering ; To avoid, shun, flee ;
'bra	 verb-pres 	'bra	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To thread rope on the saddle of cattle ;
bres	 verb-past 	'bra	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To thread rope on the saddle of cattle ;
'bra	 verb-fut 	'bra	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To thread rope on the saddle of cattle ;
'brang	 verb-pres 	'brang	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  1. (with a pleonastic ; To follow, to go after ; 1. To go after. 2. To discard one's own previous viewpoint and aims to accept the viewpoint and aims of another ; To go after, follow, pursue ;
'brangs	 verb-past 	'brang	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  1. (with a pleonastic ; To follow, to go after ; 1. To go after. 2. To discard one's own previous viewpoint and aims to accept the viewpoint and aims of another ; To go after, follow, pursue ;
'brang	 verb-fut 	'brang	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  1. (with a pleonastic ; To follow, to go after ; 1. To go after. 2. To discard one's own previous viewpoint and aims to accept the viewpoint and aims of another ; To go after, follow, pursue ;
brab	 verb-pres 	'brab	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To catch at suddenly, to snatch away. 2. To beat, to scourge. 3. To throw out, scatter (Jä) ; To flog with whip and nettle ; To hit, to beat ; To flog, strike with something flexible and thin (like a whip &c.) ; To beat, strike, hit ;
brabs	 verb-past 	'brab	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To catch at suddenly, to snatch away. 2. To beat, to scourge. 3. To throw out, scatter (Jä) ; To flog with whip and nettle ; To hit, to beat ; To flog, strike with something flexible and thin (like a whip &c.) ; To beat, strike, hit ;
dbrab	 verb-fut 	'brab	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To catch at suddenly, to snatch away. 2. To beat, to scourge. 3. To throw out, scatter (Jä) ; To flog with whip and nettle ; To hit, to beat ; To flog, strike with something flexible and thin (like a whip &c.) ; To beat, strike, hit ;
'bral	 verb-pres 	'bral	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To be separated from, disconnected ; To part, to be separate ; 1. To divide, separate. 2. To lack, not exist ; To separate, scatter individually. 2. To purify, be rid of ;
bral(d)	 verb-past 	'bral	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To be separated from, disconnected ; To part, to be separate ; 1. To divide, separate. 2. To lack, not exist ; To separate, scatter individually. 2. To purify, be rid of ;
bral	 verb-fut 	'bral	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To be separated from, disconnected ; To part, to be separate ; 1. To divide, separate. 2. To lack, not exist ; To separate, scatter individually. 2. To purify, be rid of ;
'dri	 verb-pres 	'bri	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To preste, draw, note down ; To preste, to do painting, to draw, to note down, to register ; [To preste and draw] letters and drawings ; To arrange, lay out (e.g. letters, drawings) ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 73) "]}
bris	 verb-past 	'bri	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To preste, draw, note down ; To preste, to do painting, to draw, to note down, to register ; [To preste and draw] letters and drawings ; To arrange, lay out (e.g. letters, drawings) ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 73) "]}
bri	 verb-fut 	'bri	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To preste, draw, note down ; To preste, to do painting, to draw, to note down, to register ; [To preste and draw] letters and drawings ; To arrange, lay out (e.g. letters, drawings) ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 73) "]}
'bri	 verb-pres 	'bri	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To diminish, grow less ; To go down, decline, diminish ; To become smaller, fewer ; To fade, wane, deteriorate ;
bri	 verb-past 	'bri	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To diminish, grow less ; To go down, decline, diminish ; To become smaller, fewer ; To fade, wane, deteriorate ;
'bri	 verb-fut 	'bri	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To diminish, grow less ; To go down, decline, diminish ; To become smaller, fewer ; To fade, wane, deteriorate ;
'bri	 verb-pres 	'bri	   Perhaps to be referred to 'phri
phris	 verb-past 	'bri	   Perhaps to be referred to 'phri
bri	 verb-fut 	'bri	   Perhaps to be referred to 'phri
'brid	 verb-pres 	'brid	  To caress ;
	 verb-past 	'brid	  To caress ;
	 verb-fut 	'brid	  To caress ;
'brims	 verb-pres 	'brim	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To distribute, deal out, hand round ; To give food, to give, to bring ; To divide and distribute ; To give, provide ;
brims	 verb-past 	'brim	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To distribute, deal out, hand round ; To give food, to give, to bring ; To divide and distribute ; To give, provide ;
'brim	 verb-fut 	'brim	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To distribute, deal out, hand round ; To give food, to give, to bring ; To divide and distribute ; To give, provide ;
'brud	 verb-pres 	'brud	  1. To rub. 2. To fill up ; 1. To drag. 2. To rub, scrape ; Compare 'drud
brud	 verb-past 	'brud	  1. To rub. 2. To fill up ; 1. To drag. 2. To rub, scrape ; Compare 'drud
brud	 verb-fut 	'brud	  1. To rub. 2. To fill up ; 1. To drag. 2. To rub, scrape ; Compare 'drud
'brub	 verb-pres 	'brub	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To put in a hole, to detain in a hole, to make impossible of being free [sic] ; (archaic) To put in prison, put in a hole ; 1. To hide. 2. (archaic) To guard, take charge of ;
brubs	 verb-past 	'brub	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To put in a hole, to detain in a hole, to make impossible of being free [sic] ; (archaic) To put in prison, put in a hole ; 1. To hide. 2. (archaic) To guard, take charge of ;
brub	 verb-fut 	'brub	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To put in a hole, to detain in a hole, to make impossible of being free [sic] ; (archaic) To put in prison, put in a hole ; 1. To hide. 2. (archaic) To guard, take charge of ;
'brub	 verb-pres 	'brub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  (generally with ; To be increased, to become larger ; For water to suddenly rise ; To spread, rise, increase ;
brub	 verb-past 	'brub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  (generally with ; To be increased, to become larger ; For water to suddenly rise ; To spread, rise, increase ;
'brub	 verb-fut 	'brub	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  (generally with ; To be increased, to become larger ; For water to suddenly rise ; To spread, rise, increase ;
'brul	 verb-pres 	'brul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To fall apart, to come off into pieces, to be shed ; To break to pieces ; To fall, drop ; Compare 'drul
brul(d)	 verb-past 	'brul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To fall apart, to come off into pieces, to be shed ; To break to pieces ; To fall, drop ; Compare 'drul
brul	 verb-fut 	'brul	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To fall apart, to come off into pieces, to be shed ; To break to pieces ; To fall, drop ; Compare 'drul
'bre	 verb-pres 	'bre	  To screen off, to spread over, to envelop ; To spread, to pitch up, to screen off ;
bres	 verb-past 	'bre	  To screen off, to spread over, to envelop ; To spread, to pitch up, to screen off ;
bre	 verb-fut 	'bre	  To screen off, to spread over, to envelop ; To spread, to pitch up, to screen off ;
'bred	 verb-pres 	'bred	  To be afraid of, to be frightened, to be alarmed ;
bred	 verb-past 	'bred	  To be afraid of, to be frightened, to be alarmed ;
'bred	 verb-fut 	'bred	  To be afraid of, to be frightened, to be alarmed ;
'brel	 verb-pres 	'brel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To adhere together, to combine, to become connected, to meet together ; To be connected, to be related, to be combined, to be united ; To be mutually connected, mutually dependent ;
'brel(d)	 verb-past 	'brel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To adhere together, to combine, to become connected, to meet together ; To be connected, to be related, to be combined, to be united ; To be mutually connected, mutually dependent ;
'brel	 verb-fut 	'brel	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To adhere together, to combine, to become connected, to meet together ; To be connected, to be related, to be combined, to be united ; To be mutually connected, mutually dependent ;
'brong	 verb-pres 	'brong	  (archaic) To attend, wait upon, serve ; Compare (Takeuchi 1995: 315).
'brongs	 verb-past 	'brong	  (archaic) To attend, wait upon, serve ; Compare (Takeuchi 1995: 315).
'brong	 verb-fut 	'brong	  (archaic) To attend, wait upon, serve ; Compare (Takeuchi 1995: 315).
'bros	 verb-pres 	'bros	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To run away, to escape ; To go to another place, run away in order to avoid harm ; To run in a way to avoid meeting [something undesirable] ;
bros	 verb-past 	'bros	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To run away, to escape ; To go to another place, run away in order to avoid harm ; To run in a way to avoid meeting [something undesirable] ;
'bro	 verb-fut 	'bros	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To run away, to escape ; To go to another place, run away in order to avoid harm ; To run in a way to avoid meeting [something undesirable] ;
rbod	 verb-pres 	rbod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To set on, incite ; To order a dog to chase, to let out, to send, to instigate ; To goad, instigate forcefully ; To send, goad, instigate ;
rbad	 verb-past 	rbod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To set on, incite ; To order a dog to chase, to let out, to send, to instigate ; To goad, instigate forcefully ; To send, goad, instigate ;
rbad	 verb-fut 	rbod	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To set on, incite ; To order a dog to chase, to let out, to send, to instigate ; To goad, instigate forcefully ; To send, goad, instigate ;
lbos	 verb-pres 	lbos	Intransitive:   For something to suddenly increase in volume ; Compare 'bo
lbos	 verb-past 	lbos	Intransitive:   For something to suddenly increase in volume ; Compare 'bo
lbos	 verb-fut 	lbos	Intransitive:   For something to suddenly increase in volume ; Compare 'bo
sbag	 verb-pres 	sbag	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To saturate, stain, defile, pollute ; To cause to defile, cause to stain, to cause to be defective, to make impure ; 1. To defile with something unclean. 2. To apply (a medicinal substance &c.) onto (a seed of grain &c.) ; To taint, stain, defile ; Compare 'phog
sbags	 verb-past 	sbag	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To saturate, stain, defile, pollute ; To cause to defile, cause to stain, to cause to be defective, to make impure ; 1. To defile with something unclean. 2. To apply (a medicinal substance &c.) onto (a seed of grain &c.) ; To taint, stain, defile ; Compare 'phog
sbag	 verb-fut 	sbag	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To saturate, stain, defile, pollute ; To cause to defile, cause to stain, to cause to be defective, to make impure ; 1. To defile with something unclean. 2. To apply (a medicinal substance &c.) onto (a seed of grain &c.) ; To taint, stain, defile ; Compare 'phog
sbar	 verb-pres 	sbar	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To hold another's palm ;
sbar	 verb-past 	sbar	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To hold another's palm ;
sbar	 verb-fut 	sbar	Intransitive:  Voluntary:  To hold another's palm ;
sbal	 verb-pres 	sbal	Intransitive:   (in some dialects) To bark ;
sbal	 verb-past 	sbal	Intransitive:   (in some dialects) To bark ;
sbal	 verb-fut 	sbal	Intransitive:   (in some dialects) To bark ;
sbir	 verb-pres 	sbir	Intransitive:   1. To be confused. 2. To be shaken. 3. To spread rumor ; To announce, speak widely (a secret &c.) ;
sbir(d)	 verb-past 	sbir	Intransitive:   1. To be confused. 2. To be shaken. 3. To spread rumor ; To announce, speak widely (a secret &c.) ;
sbir	 verb-fut 	sbir	Intransitive:   1. To be confused. 2. To be shaken. 3. To spread rumor ; To announce, speak widely (a secret &c.) ;
sbung	 verb-pres 	sbung	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To cause to endeavor, to cause to try ; To be eager, strive ;
sbungs	 verb-past 	sbung	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To cause to endeavor, to cause to try ; To be eager, strive ;
sbung	 verb-fut 	sbung	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To cause to endeavor, to cause to try ; To be eager, strive ;
sbud	 verb-pres 	sbud	  To blow with a skin blower, to blow ; To expel, send out ;
sbud	 verb-past 	sbud	  To blow with a skin blower, to blow ; To expel, send out ;
sbud	 verb-fut 	sbud	  To blow with a skin blower, to blow ; To expel, send out ;
sbub	 verb-pres 	sbub	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To place the mouth of a vessel on the ground ; To turn the mouth of a vessel downward, place the mouth of a vessel on the ground ;
sbubs	 verb-past 	sbub	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To place the mouth of a vessel on the ground ; To turn the mouth of a vessel downward, place the mouth of a vessel on the ground ;
sbub	 verb-fut 	sbub	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To place the mouth of a vessel on the ground ; To turn the mouth of a vessel downward, place the mouth of a vessel on the ground ;
sbe	 verb-pres 	sbe	  To scuffle, wrestle ; To wrestle, scuffle ;
sbes	 verb-past 	sbe	  To scuffle, wrestle ; To wrestle, scuffle ;
sbe	 verb-fut 	sbe	  To scuffle, wrestle ; To wrestle, scuffle ;
sbed	 verb-pres 	sbed	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To hide, conceal, cover ; To hide, to keep a secret ; To make a person or thing unable to be seen by another ; To hide, obscure ;
sbas	 verb-past 	sbed	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To hide, conceal, cover ; To hide, to keep a secret ; To make a person or thing unable to be seen by another ; To hide, obscure ;
sba	 verb-fut 	sbed	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To hide, conceal, cover ; To hide, to keep a secret ; To make a person or thing unable to be seen by another ; To hide, obscure ;
sbo	 verb-pres 	sbo	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To swell up, to distend ; To swell up ; For the stomach or intestines of men or animals to grow large by filling with air ; 1. To swell up, bulge. 2. To be ignorant, dull ; Compare lbos
sbos	 verb-past 	sbo	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To swell up, to distend ; To swell up ; For the stomach or intestines of men or animals to grow large by filling with air ; 1. To swell up, bulge. 2. To be ignorant, dull ; Compare lbos
sbo	 verb-fut 	sbo	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To swell up, to distend ; To swell up ; For the stomach or intestines of men or animals to grow large by filling with air ; 1. To swell up, bulge. 2. To be ignorant, dull ; Compare lbos
sbeng	 verb-pres 	sbong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To steep in water, to soak, to drench (Jä). 2. To abstain from ; To wet, to make damp, to moisten ; To wet something with water ; [To soak, steep] in water ;
sbangs	 verb-past 	sbong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To steep in water, to soak, to drench (Jä). 2. To abstain from ; To wet, to make damp, to moisten ; To wet something with water ; [To soak, steep] in water ;
sbang	 verb-fut 	sbong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To steep in water, to soak, to drench (Jä). 2. To abstain from ; To wet, to make damp, to moisten ; To wet something with water ; [To soak, steep] in water ;
sbon	 verb-pres 	sbon	  (archaic) To eat ; To eat ;
sbon(d)	 verb-past 	sbon	  (archaic) To eat ; To eat ;
sbon	 verb-fut 	sbon	  (archaic) To eat ; To eat ;
sbom	 verb-pres 	sbom	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To place together, to collect ; To gather into a bundle ; 1. To bind. 2. To draw together. 3. To mix ;
sbams	 verb-past 	sbom	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To place together, to collect ; To gather into a bundle ; 1. To bind. 2. To draw together. 3. To mix ;
sbam	 verb-fut 	sbom	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To place together, to collect ; To gather into a bundle ; 1. To bind. 2. To draw together. 3. To mix ;
sbor	 verb-pres 	sbor	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To light, kindle, inflame. 2. To transfer, transfuse ; To catch fire, to blaze, to be increased, to be enlarged ; To set fire to flammable substances ; To burn, set on fire ;
sbar	 verb-past 	sbor	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To light, kindle, inflame. 2. To transfer, transfuse ; To catch fire, to blaze, to be increased, to be enlarged ; To set fire to flammable substances ; To burn, set on fire ;
sbar	 verb-fut 	sbor	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To light, kindle, inflame. 2. To transfer, transfuse ; To catch fire, to blaze, to be increased, to be enlarged ; To set fire to flammable substances ; To burn, set on fire ;
sbol	 verb-pres 	sbol	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. (dialect) To move, shake. 2. To plough, till ;
sbol	 verb-past 	sbol	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. (dialect) To move, shake. 2. To plough, till ;
sbol	 verb-fut 	sbol	Transitive: Voluntary:  1. (dialect) To move, shake. 2. To plough, till ;
sbyag	 verb-pres 	sbyag	Intransitive:   (archaic) To be weak, emaciated ;
sbyag	 verb-past 	sbyag	Intransitive:   (archaic) To be weak, emaciated ;
sbyag	 verb-fut 	sbyag	Intransitive:   (archaic) To be weak, emaciated ;
sbyig	 verb-pres 	sbyig	Intransitive:   To tie, knot ; For female livestock to reach the time of breeding, go into heat ; 1. (dialect) To slip. 2. (for female livestock) To go into heat. 3. (archaic) To press clothes ;
sbyig	 verb-past 	sbyig	Intransitive:   To tie, knot ; For female livestock to reach the time of breeding, go into heat ; 1. (dialect) To slip. 2. (for female livestock) To go into heat. 3. (archaic) To press clothes ;
sbyig	 verb-fut 	sbyig	Intransitive:   To tie, knot ; For female livestock to reach the time of breeding, go into heat ; 1. (dialect) To slip. 2. (for female livestock) To go into heat. 3. (archaic) To press clothes ;
sbyin	 verb-pres 	sbyin	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To give, bestow, make a present of. 2. To add, to sum up ; To give, contribute, to give something as charity, to give some charitable help ; 1. To give, offer. 2. To feed, give to eat. 3. To make an opportunity ; 1. To give, offer. 2. To add, supplement ;
byin(d)	 verb-past 	sbyin	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To give, bestow, make a present of. 2. To add, to sum up ; To give, contribute, to give something as charity, to give some charitable help ; 1. To give, offer. 2. To feed, give to eat. 3. To make an opportunity ; 1. To give, offer. 2. To add, supplement ;
sbyin	 verb-fut 	sbyin	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To give, bestow, make a present of. 2. To add, to sum up ; To give, contribute, to give something as charity, to give some charitable help ; 1. To give, offer. 2. To feed, give to eat. 3. To make an opportunity ; 1. To give, offer. 2. To add, supplement ;
sbyong	 verb-pres 	sbyong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To clean, remove by cleaning, clear away. 2. To take away, subtract. 3. To exercise to train ; To purify, to give up, to leave, to study ; 1. To practice or study a skill again and again in order to obtain ability. 2. To clear away, purify. 3. To take (e.g. iron) from stone by melting with fire ; 1. To study. 2. To purify, rid of defects. 3. To defecate, have diarrhea. 4. To give, send. 5. To subtract, remove ;
sbyangs	 verb-past 	sbyong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To clean, remove by cleaning, clear away. 2. To take away, subtract. 3. To exercise to train ; To purify, to give up, to leave, to study ; 1. To practice or study a skill again and again in order to obtain ability. 2. To clear away, purify. 3. To take (e.g. iron) from stone by melting with fire ; 1. To study. 2. To purify, rid of defects. 3. To defecate, have diarrhea. 4. To give, send. 5. To subtract, remove ;
sbyang	 verb-fut 	sbyong	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To clean, remove by cleaning, clear away. 2. To take away, subtract. 3. To exercise to train ; To purify, to give up, to leave, to study ; 1. To practice or study a skill again and again in order to obtain ability. 2. To clear away, purify. 3. To take (e.g. iron) from stone by melting with fire ; 1. To study. 2. To purify, rid of defects. 3. To defecate, have diarrhea. 4. To give, send. 5. To subtract, remove ;
sbyor	 verb-pres 	sbyor	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To affix, paste, fasten together, put close to, apply. 2. To prepare, get ready, adjust, accommodate one's self to ; To attach, to paste, to combine, practices, to make food, prepare food ; 1. To make adhere, make stick together (with glue &c.) a break, gap in something. 2. To hook together. 3. To connect, match. 4. To be near to, to match.  5. To show, teach, say. 6. To introduce. 7. To give, establish ; 1. To link together, put together. 2. To actually practice, engage in. 3. To meditate. 4. To couple, copulate ;
sbyar(d)	 verb-past 	sbyor	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To affix, paste, fasten together, put close to, apply. 2. To prepare, get ready, adjust, accommodate one's self to ; To attach, to paste, to combine, practices, to make food, prepare food ; 1. To make adhere, make stick together (with glue &c.) a break, gap in something. 2. To hook together. 3. To connect, match. 4. To be near to, to match.  5. To show, teach, say. 6. To introduce. 7. To give, establish ; 1. To link together, put together. 2. To actually practice, engage in. 3. To meditate. 4. To couple, copulate ;
sbyar	 verb-fut 	sbyor	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To affix, paste, fasten together, put close to, apply. 2. To prepare, get ready, adjust, accommodate one's self to ; To attach, to paste, to combine, practices, to make food, prepare food ; 1. To make adhere, make stick together (with glue &c.) a break, gap in something. 2. To hook together. 3. To connect, match. 4. To be near to, to match.  5. To show, teach, say. 6. To introduce. 7. To give, establish ; 1. To link together, put together. 2. To actually practice, engage in. 3. To meditate. 4. To couple, copulate ;
sbrag	 verb-pres 	sbrag	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To lay, put a thing over another, or by the side of another ; To attach, to put together ; To arrange together, match ; 1. To link together. 2. To give ;
sbrags	 verb-past 	sbrag	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To lay, put a thing over another, or by the side of another ; To attach, to put together ; To arrange together, match ; 1. To link together. 2. To give ;
sbrag	 verb-fut 	sbrag	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To lay, put a thing over another, or by the side of another ; To attach, to put together ; To arrange together, match ; 1. To link together. 2. To give ;
sbrid	 verb-pres 	sbrid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To sneeze. 2. To become numb, torpid ; To feel numbness, to be unable to walk because of numbness, to sneeze ; 1. For the sense of feeling to become unclear in a part of the body. 2. To sneeze when something is felt to come inside the nose ; For feeling to deteriorate (by a nervous disease &c.) ;
sbrid	 verb-past 	sbrid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To sneeze. 2. To become numb, torpid ; To feel numbness, to be unable to walk because of numbness, to sneeze ; 1. For the sense of feeling to become unclear in a part of the body. 2. To sneeze when something is felt to come inside the nose ; For feeling to deteriorate (by a nervous disease &c.) ;
sbrid	 verb-fut 	sbrid	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  1. To sneeze. 2. To become numb, torpid ; To feel numbness, to be unable to walk because of numbness, to sneeze ; 1. For the sense of feeling to become unclear in a part of the body. 2. To sneeze when something is felt to come inside the nose ; For feeling to deteriorate (by a nervous disease &c.) ;
sbrib	 verb-pres 	sbrib	  To feel hungry, to be hungry ; To be hungry ;
sbribs	 verb-past 	sbrib	  To feel hungry, to be hungry ; To be hungry ;
sbrib	 verb-fut 	sbrib	  To feel hungry, to be hungry ; To be hungry ;
sbru	 verb-pres 	sbru	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To stir with one's hand, to poke up (fire). 2. To knead ; To wash in water, to mix thoroughly, to knead, to rub in order to clean the husk of grain, to clean ; To wet (grain or something similar) with liquid ; To knead ;
sbrus	 verb-past 	sbru	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To stir with one's hand, to poke up (fire). 2. To knead ; To wash in water, to mix thoroughly, to knead, to rub in order to clean the husk of grain, to clean ; To wet (grain or something similar) with liquid ; To knead ;
sbru	 verb-fut 	sbru	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To stir with one's hand, to poke up (fire). 2. To knead ; To wash in water, to mix thoroughly, to knead, to rub in order to clean the husk of grain, to clean ; To wet (grain or something similar) with liquid ; To knead ;
sbrum	 verb-pres 	sbrum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To become pregnant, conceive ; For a child to develop in a woman's womb ; To develop in a womb ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 73)"]}
sbrums	 verb-past 	sbrum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To become pregnant, conceive ; For a child to develop in a woman's womb ; To develop in a womb ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 73)"]}
sbrum	 verb-fut 	sbrum	Intransitive:  Involuntary:  To become pregnant, conceive ; For a child to develop in a woman's womb ; To develop in a womb ;{:tag :ref, :attrs nil, :content ["(Beyer 1992: 73)"]}
sbre	 verb-pres 	sbre	  To become cold, to freeze ;
sbres	 verb-past 	sbre	  To become cold, to freeze ;
sbre	 verb-fut 	sbre	  To become cold, to freeze ;
sbreg	 verb-pres 	sbreg	  To become cold, to freeze ;
sbregs	 verb-past 	sbreg	  To become cold, to freeze ;
sbreg	 verb-fut 	sbreg	  To become cold, to freeze ;
sbreng	 verb-pres 	sbreng	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To rattle, make shake, vibrate, to play an instrument (Jä) ; To pull, to pull the string of an arrow ; 1. To make a sound by plucking the string of a stringed instrument. 2. To pour down water from a thin tube or small hole ; 1. To organize, arrange. 2. To draw, pull. 3. To raise, hoist, brandish ;
sbrengs	 verb-past 	sbreng	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To rattle, make shake, vibrate, to play an instrument (Jä) ; To pull, to pull the string of an arrow ; 1. To make a sound by plucking the string of a stringed instrument. 2. To pour down water from a thin tube or small hole ; 1. To organize, arrange. 2. To draw, pull. 3. To raise, hoist, brandish ;
sbreng	 verb-fut 	sbreng	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To rattle, make shake, vibrate, to play an instrument (Jä) ; To pull, to pull the string of an arrow ; 1. To make a sound by plucking the string of a stringed instrument. 2. To pour down water from a thin tube or small hole ; 1. To organize, arrange. 2. To draw, pull. 3. To raise, hoist, brandish ;
sbreb	 verb-pres 	sbreb	  To become cold, to freeze ; (archaic) 1. To be thin, dry. 2. To be cold. 3. To be hungry ;
sbrebs	 verb-past 	sbreb	  To become cold, to freeze ; (archaic) 1. To be thin, dry. 2. To be cold. 3. To be hungry ;
sbreb	 verb-fut 	sbreb	  To become cold, to freeze ; (archaic) 1. To be thin, dry. 2. To be cold. 3. To be hungry ;
sbrel	 verb-pres 	sbrel	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To stitch together (paper), to sew on, to fasten on, to bind together, to attach ; To attach, to put together, to tie together ; To join together, link ; To link, to hold together head and tail, connect, put together ;
sbrel(d)	 verb-past 	sbrel	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To stitch together (paper), to sew on, to fasten on, to bind together, to attach ; To attach, to put together, to tie together ; To join together, link ; To link, to hold together head and tail, connect, put together ;
sbrel	 verb-fut 	sbrel	Transitive:  Voluntary:  To stitch together (paper), to sew on, to fasten on, to bind together, to attach ; To attach, to put together, to tie together ; To join together, link ; To link, to hold together head and tail, connect, put together ;
sbron	 verb-pres 	sbron	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To summon, call, announce to. 2. To sprinkle, to squirt upon ; To call, to call a friend, to inform, warn ; 1. To signal, imply, hint. 2. To call, summon ; To call, summon ;
sbran(d)	 verb-past 	sbron	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To summon, call, announce to. 2. To sprinkle, to squirt upon ; To call, to call a friend, to inform, warn ; 1. To signal, imply, hint. 2. To call, summon ; To call, summon ;
sbran	 verb-fut 	sbron	Transitive:  Voluntary:  1. To summon, call, announce to. 2. To sprinkle, to squirt upon ; To call, to call a friend, to inform, warn ; 1. To signal, imply, hint. 2. To call, summon ; To call, summon ;
mang	 verb-pres 	mang	 Involuntary:   To be much, to increase, to become more, many ; A verbal use of the adjective mang po
mangs	 verb-past 	mang	 Involuntary:   To be much, to increase, to become more, many ; A verbal use of the adjective mang po
	 verb-fut 	mang	 Involuntary:   To be much, to increase, to become more, many ; A verbal use of the adjective mang po
par		ba
bar		ba
pa		ba
pas		ba
bas		ba
